Do you want to talk to your friends or loved ones and looking for free calling apps for Android?
Here in this article, I have chosen some of the ten best free calling apps for Android that will allow you to call your friend and relatives without costing you any money. All you need to have is a stable Internet connection and a compatible Android device.
#01 – WhatsApp Messenger
Since after its launch, WhatsApp has become one of the most prevalent social networking apps on the Google Play Store because it is free and allows you to communicate with your friends, family and loved ones via messaging and calls.
The app does not charge you a single penny, does not has a single advertisement, and does not require you to create any account.
#02 – Facebook Messenger
Messenger is designed by Facebook as a standalone app in an attempt to completely separate their mainstream social networking app from the communication app and then made it mandatory for every Facebook user to install the Messenger to communicate via messaging.
The Messenger app not only allows you to have a personal chat with your Facebook friends, but you can also use the calling functionality to have either a free voice or video conversation with them!
#03 – Viber
Viber is a very much similar to the WhatsApp app and allows you to communicate with your friends and family, who are on Viber too, via free calling functionality. They recently introduced a video calling functionality too.
Apart from the regular functions, Viber offers some unique features too like deleting a message even after it has been sent, support for cross-platform so that you can seamlessly use Viber on your smartphone, tablet, or even a computer.
#04 – Skype
Most of us already know about Skype. A popular software that has been used on computers for video calling for a long time now. But since the smartphones have been widespread, so it has been made available for Android devices too, which brings us the free voice-calling feature at our fingertips.
The app makes it easier for you to call your Skype friends right from the Android app and share your stories without worrying about any calling charges.
#05 – LINE: Free Calls & Messages
The Line is a popular messaging and calling app for Android devices. It enables you to call and connect with your friends and loved ones without any limitation. The app even allows you to have message-based conversations along with a huge list of stickers and emoticons to be able to express your emotions better.
The app is available for multiple platforms including Android, iOS, Windows Phone, BlackBerry Firefox OS, Nokia Symbian, Mac OS X, Windows, Google Chrome. So you won’t have to worry about being disconnected with your friends.
#06 – Tango
Tango is being used by more than three hundred and fifty million users around the world who enjoys free voice and messaging feature to stay in touch with their friends and family members.
The app provides a great user interface along with the capability to send and receive videos, photos, audio, and share other multimedia messages without any restriction.
#07 – imo
imo is one of the most simplified social networking and communication network app on the Google Play Store. The app has reached great heights because of its straightforward and sleek UI along with easy access to video calling but later the developer introduced voice calling that made it even more popular among the users.
The app has been downloaded by more than a hundred and fifty million users worldwide and has an average user rating of 4.2 out of 5.
#08 – KakaoTalk: Free Calls & Text
KakaoTalk is a free calling and texting app developed by Kakao Corporation, which is capable enough to help you with sending and receiving photos, messages, videos, and voice notes. The app also comes preinstalled with a huge selection of stickers and emoticons.
The app is fast, speedy and reliable on all of the compatible networks including 3G, 4G, and Wi-Fi.
#09 – Hangouts
Hangouts app is developed by Google and is a nice way to stay in touch with your friends and relatives by using the communicational features like voice calling, video calling and messaging from within the app.
The app also supports group chat functionality that allows you to add up to 150 people in one group and talk with all of them at the same time. You can even do a group voice calling with over ten friends at once.
#10 – ooVoo Video Calls, Text & Voice
ooVoo is a social networking and communication network that let you share your memories with your friends anywhere and anytime, around the world with high-quality voice and video calling. The app provides a one-touch calling functionality too so that you can easily begin a free voice or video conversation right from the messaging view.
Moreover, just like other apps on the list, ooVoo also provides support for cross-platform so that you can experience the app everywhere and make free voice calls with every friend, regardless of the device and operating system they are using.
Which Free Calling App Is Your Favorite?
Did I miss any app in the list above? Do you have any other favorite free calling apps? Let me know about them in the comments below! 🙂
I prefer Cloud SIM app as it gives me a second number for incoming and outgoing calls. Also the rates are much cheaper for calling India and other countriesUsually, the stock keyboards are the most reliable and never cause any compatibility issues. However, these keyboard apps sometimes lack some of the advanced functionalities like swipe text input, personalization, ability to customize the look and appearance of the keyboard.
There could be any reason. And we all know that there are some decent and great keyboard apps.
To help you out with your search for the best keyboard apps for Android, we have listed the ten best apps below. we hope this helps you in finding the right one for yourself! 😉
1 – Microsoft SwiftKey Keyboard
SwiftKey is one of the best keyboards designed for Android. It provides excellent customizability, it is faster and works pretty well across devices (obviously, only if you have multiple devices). It even supports the swipe-writing style.
For those of you who depend on the prediction mode while typing, then this would be the most suitable keyboard app for you as the prediction feature is the best. It can even predict emoji for you. And over time, with daily usage, it will learn your writing style, and based on those inputs, it will suggest the next word.
Pros
- Have a wide range of keyboard themes, designs, and colors (free + paid).
- Predictions and autocorrects are powered by artificial intelligence that learns from you.
- Support more than hundreds of languages.
Cons
- Might be slow and lagging on some low-performance devices.
- Swipe text input becomes buggy at times.
2 – Ginger Keyboard
Ginger is a feature-rich Android keyboard that supports swipe input along with the quick and efficient correction of punctuations, grammar, and spell checking while you are typing so that you send high quality and error-free messages.
The app has a built-in advanced artificial intelligence capability that learns your typing style over time, analysis it. It then suggests you with an accurate prediction for the next word. And based on the emoji you use the phrases, Ginger will even advise you to use the proper emoji accordingly.
Pros
- Personalize keyboard with hundreds of themes and an option to build a custom-tailored theme.
- Keep your frequently used apps at easy access with Ginger’s Smart Bar.
- Spelling, punctuation, and grammar checker.
- Support more than fifty languages.
- Provide active support and frequent updates.
Cons
- Contains ads and popup ads. (Can be removed with in-app purchases)
3 – Chrooma Keyboard
Chrooma is a fast and lightweight keyboard that has a unique ability to adapt its appearance to the app you are using, and this color adapting capability is what gives you a perfect integration as well as a pleasant chromatic feeling.
Looks-wise, the keyboard will look similar to the ones created by Google, but feature-wise the keyboard has a lot to offer. It supports gestures, almost for everything! Has one-handed mode and split keyboard layout. It allows you to write a message using swipe gestures. And the keyboard has a configurable night mode too.
Pros
- Personalize your keyboard with a variety of colors and font styles.
- Compatible with tablet devices.
- Support all of the standard and popular languages, including Indic languages.
Cons
- Predictions might not be up to the mark.
- Less frequent updates.
4 – Hacker’s Keyboard
Are you one of those Android users who would love to have an advanced input method integrated right into the Android smartphone and is similar to the one you use on the desktop?
Hacker’s keyboard is your answer! It is suitable for Android geeks. And is an open source app.
The keyboard is one of the least resource hungry and the most lightweight keyboard app designed for Android devices. The main benefit of this keyboard is that it features a full set of keys, including modifiers like alt, ctrl, tab, function keys, which can be useful for programmers, advanced users, and system administrators.
Pros
- Separate keys for every function, numbers, and letters. Almost identical to the one you use on the desktop.
- Optional dictionary packs for several languages.
- Support more than thirty different language keyboard layouts.
Cons
- The app is not updated for a long time.
5 – ai.type Keyboard Plus + Emoji
ai.type keyboard plus is a premium keyboard app and is the smartest, feature-rich, and highly personalize-able that ensures one of the best messaging experience on the Android device.
The keyboard supports swipe functionality as well as reliable next word prediction, auto-correction, and word completion that is compatible with over fifty languages. The app provides you with a customizable fifth-row that allows you to add punctuations, numbers, or emoji for easy access.
Pros
- Customize your keyboard and typing experience with thousands of free themes. Also, you can create personalized themes.
- Premium app with zero ads added features and particular themes.
- Support over eighty languages.
Cons
- It might not be fully compatible with a few languages.
If you are not much into typing messages and you find it tiresome then you can simply use some of the well-known Speech to Text apps for Android. That alone will save you a lot of time and you can become more efficient in getting back to people who are waiting for you to respond.
6 – Fleksy Private Keyboard
Fleksy gives you a large size keyboard along with simple gestures integration in an attempt to provide you with fast typing speeds. There are several inbuilt gestures to speed up your overall typing capability.
The most significant plus point of this keyboard app is that it let you customize the size of the keyboard as well as the keys, which makes it suitable for those who find it hard to use regular-sized Android keyboards.
Pros
- Customize your experience with more than forty keyboard themes.
- Provide an ability to add custom extensions to improve usability.
- Support more than forty-two languages, and the ability to switch between languages while typing seamlessly.
Cons
- Less frequent updates.
- You might face occasional lags.
7 – GO Keyboard
GO Keyboard is an excellent and quick keyboard for any Android device as it comes with great functionality and features that allow you to improve your whole typing experience.
The keyboard is designed to give you intuitive autocorrect and autofill suggestions that are entirely based on your day-to-day usage of phrases and your typing styles.
And for those of you are looking to chat and communicate with your friends using emoticons, smileys, and emoji, then GO Keyboard will allow you to transform your plain and straightforward texts into relevant emoticons and emoji so that you can express more.
Pros
- Give you an ultimate customizability experience with thousands of themes and font styles.
- Receive frequent updates for bug fixes and improvements.
- Support more than sixty languages.
Cons
- Contains ads.
8 – Gboard Google Keyboard
Google Keyboard is developed by Google and is one of those keyboards that come preinstalled in most of the Android devices, including smartphones and tablets. It supports gesture typing, voice typing as well as automatic word completion.
The developers at Google have tried their best to keep the design and theme material. And added support for almost every language and their layouts. Similar to most of the other keyboard apps mentioned in the list, this app also learns what you type to enhance the prediction capabilities.
And because it is by Google, so all of your saved words and predictions will be synced with your Google account so that it can improve your usability on your other Android devices.
Good thing about Gboard is that if you like emoji then you can use Bitmoji Keyboard app to further enhance your messaging experience over all social media channels.
Pros
- Ability to set the custom theme with your choice of color and photo.
- One of the most reliable keyboard option.
- Support up to hundreds of languages, including Indic language.
Cons
- You will need to install a separate language pack for non-supported languages.
- Might become unresponsive at times on some devices.
9 – Swype Keyboard
Swype is a premium app and is one of those keyboard apps that have gained a lot of popularity due to a large number of features it offers, mainly swipe character input method.
The app has a built-in mechanism that reads and learns your writing style and messaging habits, which then automatically updates its integrated dictionary and stores your phrases, which later is used to suggest you with the new and relevant phrases as you type.
Pros
- Offer some themes to customize your writing experience.
- Ability to sync, backup, and restore personal dictionary.
- Compatible with Android tablet devices.
Cons
- Might become unresponsive.
- Dragon integration sometimes slows your overall messaging experience.
10 – Touchpal Keyboard
The Touchpal keyboard offers one of the most reliable integrations for swipe text input. The app is completely free and enables you to write faster than a conventional typing method thanks to the swipe, curve, and predictions.
The Touchpal’s contextual prediction feature is one of the more potent as it provides you with the real-time error-correction that fixes spelling mistakes, suggests the right words for mistyped words as well as automatic capitalization.
Pros
- Highly customizable keyboard with hundreds of themes, and the ability to set a custom color, layout style, and background.
- Receive frequent updates and bug fixes.
- Support more than ninety-seven languages.
Cons
- It might not be a suitable app for someone looking for just a keyboard.
- The app comes with some additional bundled features.
Which Keyboard App Is Your Favorite?
Which one of the Android keyboard apps mentioned in this list did you like the most? Share with us in the comments section below! 🙂
Really nice top. Nevertheless, i think you should also test RedrawKeyboard. For me, it deserves a place in this list.BestForAndroid is one of top Android Blog, serving more than 3 Million page views every month. Our majority of traffic coming from the US, UK, Canada & India.
We do get a lot of requests related to advertisement so this page contains essential information regarding advertisement.
No Guest Posts/Links
We do not accept guest posts at all so please do not contact us for the sake of SEO guest posts. If you are interested we can offer you only sponsored posts. Sponsored Posts are only meant for Awareness purpose only. We charge a minimum of $250 for sponsored post and do not offer any discount.
Our Rates
Our rates vary according to the type of ads, position, geography, and size. You can contact us for more detail. Our minimum pricing for advertisement placement is 300 dollars.
Contact us
If you are interested in advertising on our site, contact us here.Did you ever think about personalizing your Android phone or tablet by having your favorite interactive and live wallpaper as the homescreen background?
In most of the cases, whenever you ask anyone about customizing Android device, people would recommend you to install launchers and widgets. But, what if you are looking for a wallpaper only?
Here we have included a variety of live wallpaper apps with animations and effects to help you personalize your smartphone according to your personal preference. 😉
#01 – Dandelion Live Wallpaper
First up on our best live wallpaper apps list is an app that features Dandelion flowers wallpaper. The word Dandelion actually came from a French word ‘dent-de-lion’, which means lion’s tooth because it looks like one. And what’s interesting about this flower is their seeds can fly and travel up to eight kilometers from the starting point.
This live wallpaper app will imitate the same flying seeds process and brings it to your Android phone’s home screen. You will also find a couple of additional live effects specifically designed for Christmas and Halloween.
- You can set any custom photo as the background.
- Christmas and Halloween effects with flying snowflakes and bats.
- Frequently updated to improve compatibility and fix bugs.
- Contains ads.
- No additional option to change/customize flying effects.
#02 – Aquarium Live Wallpaper
Do you love to see the underwater world filled with lots of small fishes, specifically located around the sea coral? If yes, then you would love to have this artificial aquarium live wallpaper as your Android device’s home screen background.
Even though the fishes and effects might not be as good as any real aquarium, but the animations are smooth. Moreover, if you are stressed at your job or work, constantly glancing at the aquarium will give you a relaxing and calming effect.
- Realistic animations for fishes and air bubbles.
- Smooth and lag free effects.
- Frequently updated to fix compatibility issues with newer devices.
- Contains ads.
- Do not allow you to customize any effect.
- Lacks diversity in fishes.
#03 – Waterfall Live Wallpaper
Waterfalls, no matter how massive they are in height and how much powerful the stream is, they are the most beautiful and people just love to gaze and spend their time around to appreciate the magnificence. The uninterrupted flow of water is simply fascinating for everyone.
Keeping all of that in mind, the Waterfall live wallpaper app is specifically designed for the Android users who love to be mesmerized by the waterfalls. The waterfall featured in the app includes Angel Falls, Niagara Falls, Gullfoss, and Victoria Falls. And it shows you live wallpapers with realistic waterfall animations.
- Realistic waterfall animations.
- Varieties of waterfalls live wallpapers.
- Contains ads.
- Low resolution wallpapers.
#04 – Analog Clock Live Wallpaper
The Analog Clock Live Wallpaper app not only provides you with live wallpaper but it also comes with a home screen widget. You can use the long touch gesture to open application menu.
The analog clock supports both 12-hour and 24-hour time format and is capable of showing you the month, date, and day in your selected language. The display is available in solid as well as gradient style. The settings section even let you customize the size of the clock, enable and disable the second hand, select the color for primary and secondary.
- Comes with a number of customizability options.
- Shows the date, day, and month.
- Supports home screen widget (might not be compatible with all devices).
#05 – Petals 3D Live Wallpaper
Petals are the important part of any flower that mostly has bright color and pleasing scent, which makes it a symbol of happiness and love. It has been discovered that being around flowers has a lasting positive effect on the mood of the person.
Similarly, having the beautiful 3D petals set as the wallpaper of your device will somehow affect your mood in a positive way. The app comes with settings that allow you to modify the speed, quantity, and color of petals appearing on the wallpaper to better suit your mood and interest.
- Select from a range of petals styles.
- Ability to change the quantity, color, and speed of petals appearing on the wallpaper.
- Beautiful 3D animation.
- Contains ads.
#06 – Fluffy Chu Live Wallpaper
The Fluffy Chu live wallpaper app is about the Chu who is fluffy little cute gnome with whom you can interact and see the reactions made by the troll. The Chu sings and makes noises when poked. The app comes with several customizable options that allow you to change the background picture as well as the Chu’s clothing.
However, to be able to customize and personalize the character you need to play Chu Jump game, rather than purchasing with cash. And the points you earned in the game can then be used to unlock items. This makes it a uniquely interactive live wallpaper for your Android device. 😉
- Compatible with phones and tablets.
- The Chu can be personalized and customized using the points earned through Chu Jump game.
- Frequently updated to bring new items.
- Might consume a little bit battery.
#07 – Paperland Live Wallpaper
Paperland is a fantastic live wallpaper for anyone who loves art and craft because this live wallpaper app uses paper cutout landscape (including trees, mountains, clouds, and any other object) for the animation. What’s more interesting is the automated time-based option that will exactly imitate the daytime and nighttime on your home screen.
The free version of Paperland comes with three themes including silent night, grassy, and desert migration. But if you opt for a pro version then you will get a couple of dozen themes to choose from including Christmas, Easter, autumn.
- Lightweight live wallpaper app.
- Paperland pro comes with customization possibilities for color and objects.
- Support live weather updates via AccuWeather.
- You might face compatibility issues because the app has not been updated since October 2015.
#08 – Minima Live Wallpaper
Minima is a true live wallpaper app that brings a never-ending range of shifting color and shapes to your Android homescreen that suits absolutely well with the material design elements. The effects and animations of the wallpapers would look similar to the 3D parallax motion, which makes the shapes shift and tilt as you scroll through your homescreen.
The app comes with over thirty-five themes and you can easily modify the color of the shapes and items according to your preference and taste. Though the editing option is available in pro version only that comes with more than ninety additional themes and along with the option to create your personalized wallpaper.
- More than hundred pre-built themes and wallpapers.
- Randomizer that will automatically bring a new wallpaper every day.
- Pro version brings additional functionalities and features.
- Might not be compatible with devices running new Android OS because the app is not updated for past few months.
#09 – 3D Parallax Background Live Wallpaper
3D Parallax is a uniquely designed hologram-type live wallpaper app for your Android device. The developer has used the well-known parallax effect, which will give you an impression that any item located on your home screen (including icons and text) are hovering over the top of the wallpaper. It was first introduced by Apple in iOS 7.
3D parallax wallpapers are actually considered multilayer wallpaper with amazing eye-catching 3D effects. Moreover, the wallpaper is controlled by the gyroscope and accelerometer to make the visualization even better. There are over seventy theme packs and you can even create personalized parallax wallpaper on Android.
- Over 70 different 3D parallax wallpaper themes to choose from.
- Ability to create your own parallax wallpaper.
- Enhanced 3D effects with gyroscope and accelerometer.
- Helpful support staff and active developer team.
- The 3D effects might not be interesting for those looking for live wallpapers only.
#10 – KLWP Kustom Live Wallpaper Maker
KLWP is a Kustom Live Wallpaper Maker app that is designed by the developer with an aim to help you create a unique and personalized live wallpaper for your Android device. The app comes with a powerful WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) wallpaper creator and editor to make it possible for almost anyone to design and develop customized wallpapers along with magnificent animations.
KLWP comes preloaded with tons of possibilities to let you design nearly any type or form of live wallpaper including clocks, stylish meters, gyroscopic effects, live map.
- A lot of customizability options to create a unique live wallpaper.
- Support for the gyroscope to provide enhanced animations and motion.
- Ability to add different objects and items to show data in live wallpapers.
- Contains ads, but can be removed with the purchase of pro version.
- Not compatible with Go Launcher.
- Might be complex for an average user.
#11 – Sun Rise Live Wallpaper
Imagine looking at the sky at dawn over the hill. This live wallpaper features tree silhouette, on top of a morning sky background with soft cloud moving, birds flying, and rainbow appearing occasionally. In the morning, a flock of birds will come out and cheer your morning with a greeting. The scene has full parallax effect.
#12 – Christmas Rink Live Wallpaper
Skate right into the Christmas with this beautiful winter-themed Live Wallpaper. Featuring several groups of interactive Christmas characters who are gliding along to the softly falling snow at various ice rinks.
#13 – Fireworks Live Wallpaper
Enjoy all year Fireworks on your device as live wallpaper! Set this live wallpaper on your favorite Holidays like Independence day on 4th of july, New Year’s Eve – Holiday or Christmas!
#14 – Flower Clock Live Wallpaper
Choose your favorite flower as symbol of love, peace and infinite beauty! Glorious colors and festive moods are pouring before your eyes and ensure high spirits in everyday life! Сharming flower clock live wallpaper with animated and photo themes and 26 tender analog clock flowers.
#15 – Autumn Live Wallpaper
With Autumn Live Wallpaper Free, you will have the screen falling autumn leaves rustling inside the little house in the woods. It is a very romantic scenery. The leaves many shapes falling motions will make your screen more vivid.
#16 – Ocean Live Wallpaper
Do you enjoy the relaxing beauty of the ocean in summer? Then this FREE live wallpaper is perfect for you. Enjoy the beautiful ocean sunset over the Florida beach as the dynamic sounds of the waves sooth your mood.
#17 – Garden Live Wallpaper
Garden Live Wallpaper is here to make your day! If you love nature and beautiful landscapes then this is a perfect LWP for you! Experience the lovely scenery of luscious green nature in the summer from “Garden Live Wallpaper” and you’ll always be in a good mood. Do something for yourself, allow yourself to enjoy every moment of your day! Get this amazing serene nature wallpaper now, it’s totally free – lay back, relax and enjoy!
#18 – Awesome Land Live Wallpaper
Save Trees, Save nature. Ever dreamed of a magic Land where you can live with your loved ones? Well this is it. Awesome Land, Turn your Devices in to a heavenly experience, Share it with your friends and family. With total more than 5 million Free Users, Its the most recommended Best Natural Live wallpaper for all latest Android Devices.
#19 – Night Sky Live Wallpaper
If you are a true fan of astronomy, night sky, moon and stars in the sky than this awesome app is perfect for you. Download these amazing HD wallpapers and set your favorite background image. “Night Sky Live Wallpaper“ is the latest night sky app for your mobile and you could be first to have these beautiful pictures. With this awesome app you will see shooting stars every time you look at your screen, make a wish and enjoy the best night sky background.
#20 – Love Live Wallpaper
Love Live Wallpaper is a photo wallpaper than gives you beautiful images and romantic backgrounds where you can add the portrait of your loved one or family.
Did We Miss Any Live Wallpaper?
Did we forget to include any live wallpaper in the list that you think should be featured on the list? Please let us know in the comments section below. We would be more than happy to include it. 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidLost your password?
← Back to BestForAndroid – Download APK FilesDownload 8 Ball Pool Hack
Disclaimer: 8 ball pool is owned and copyright protected by Miniclip. By posting apk here for gamers we do not…
Are you searching for a Subway Surfers mod and hack APK to get unlimited coins and keys? Your search is…
Asphalt 8 Airborne apk mod and obb data (highly compressed) file available for download for Android, you can get unlimited…
Are you looking for a working Clash of Clans mod apk to hack the in-game resources and get unlimited gems,…
GTA San Andreas APK for Android so if you are you a hardcore Grand Theft Auto fan and looking to…
Are you looking for a quick and easy Candy Crush Saga mod apk with all the levels and episodes unlocked…
The Clash Royale hack apk for Android devices with unlimited gems, gold, coins, elixir, and maximum level is available for…
Are you in search for a SimCity BuildIt mod apk for Android phone and tablet devices with unlimited Simoleons, NeoSimoleons,…
Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can’t download directly…
Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can’t download directly…Android APK Downloads
|Topic||Replies||Views||Activity|
|About the Android APK Downloads category||0||968||March 4, 2017|
|How to download Among Us on Xbox?||0||67||September 29, 2020|
|Best sources to download MovieBox APK & Alternatives||24||7713||September 23, 2020|
|Dream League Soccer 2017 Latest APK||4||2545||January 10, 2018|
|Spotify free premium says invalid username/password?||1||2529||September 25, 2018|
|Cant install modded Simcity Build It||3||510||April 28, 2020|
|From where I can Download GTA San Andreas APK + Data||5||6277||January 10, 2018|
|Where can I find a SimCity Buildit APK||3||1134||July 5, 2018|
|Fake GPS Go APK Download||3||9140||July 17, 2017|Hi everyone. My brother’s Galaxy S6 is currently having a problem that it is not charging when I plug it in. Please guide me to solve this problem?
Hey, there are many things in the Samsung Galaxy S6 that can cause this problem there might be a Problem with the charger or the USB cable. Try charging your phone with a different charger.
Nope. That’s not the problem with me, any other thing?
Your phone might have frozen due to some reason so try restarting your phone by holding the power button and volume down button simultaneously for 7 seconds, this will restart your phone. After your phone has restarted, try charging it again.
What if none of these work for me?
Then you can check your USB charging port, maybe that’s loose or it is not properly connected with the board. If you can’t do it yourself, get it checked from the local mobile shop, they will tell you about the phone.
Any other suggestions related to this? Everything is fine for me that you’ve listed above.
This problem can also be caused if you have updated the Android OS more than it can support. So you can try downgrading your Android OS to the previous version, this might solve your problem.
it’s probably a cable problem, so you know what to do next in this case. However, if the phone gets detected by your computer, try to set your focus on the charger itself. If you have other phones, try charging them using your S6 Edge’s chargerFor Advertisement & Guest Posts, please check out this page before contacting us. We only respond to important emails.
You can get in touch with us by the following means:
- Email: [email protected] / bestiumpro[@]gmailcom
- Phone Number: +1 (802) 731-1786
- Address: BestiumPro LLC, 11923 NE Sumner St
STE 658770, Portland, Oregon, 97250, USAAre you looking for file manager app for your Android that will help you in organizing files/folders, downloads, images, and videos stored on your device? I have listed some of the best apps that will let you perform all of those tasks!
Even though every Android device, whether it is a phone or a tablet, comes preinstalled with a basic file management app. But to be able to perform all the tasks and make proper use of the Android’s capability, we need to install a third-party file manager.
Here I have found the ten best file manager apps for Android that will help you with all the basic as well as advanced file management tasks.
#01 – ES File Explore File Manager
ES File Explore is one of the top file managers on the Google Play Store because of the exceptional features it offers and the data management convenience it provides, and you will find this app to be the most useful app that allows you to do all of your file managing tasks efficiently.
The app is also capable enough to let you manage files remotely via FTP, cloud storage, and SMB. The app is ads supported, so if you are looking for an ad-free version along with added customizations, then you should opt for ES File Explore Pro available on the Play Store.
#02 – File Manager (File Transfer)
File Manager app is developed by Cheetah Mobile and is downloaded by millions of users who gave it an average rating of 4.4 out of 5. The app provides the top of the line features to help you in managing your files on Android device.
The app also has support for widgets to make it even more convenient for you to view and manage files right from the home screen. If you liked the app and looking for some advanced features, then you might want to opt for the pro version of this app.
#03 – ASTRO File Manager
Astro File Manager app is developed by Metago developers who are one of the top developers at the Google Play Store. The interface is clear making it easy for you to navigate around your device’s internal storage, SD card storage, and search for any content stored in your device without any difficulty.
#04 – File Manager
ASUS Computer Inc. has also developed a File Manager for Android devices. And similar to other apps mentioned on the list, this app is also capable of handling any file format whether they are stored in your cloud storage, microSD card, internal memory, or local area network.
The app supports streaming of the multimedia content that is stored in the cloud storage. And if you are running low on storage then you can even compress your least used files in RAR or Zip file format right from the app.
#05 – File Commander – File Manager
File Commander is the file management app that has managed to make it to the Editor’s Choice list of the Google Play Store. The latest version of the app features a secure mode that allows you to encrypt your files and folders, and you can even hide them completely so that no other app can see those files.
The app is developed by MobiSystems who is the top developer at the Google Play App Store. The app is compatible with devices running Android 4.0 and above. The app has an average user rating of 4.2 out of 5.
#06 – Super File Manager (Explorer)
Super File Manager has been gone through a major update recently that give it a completely new user interface along with an improved and polished file management experience. The latest update added a new hotspot feature that allows you to seamlessly transfer files between Android, iOS, and your computer.
#07 – File Manager
Developed by Gira Mobile, this File Manager app is compatible with wide range of Android operating systems and is capable of handling most of the files and folders no matter where they are stored.
The app supports many compression file formats that allow you to compress and decompress any file including Tar, RAR, Zip, Tgz, Tbz, Tar.gz, and several others. The interface is easy to use for any Android user and will let you copy, cut, paste, delete, rename, find, and other essential operations without any glitch.
#08 – Total Commander – File Manager
The Total Commander app will give you a complete command over the files and folders in your Android device. The app is free from advertisements and provides all the fundamental tools and functionalities required for the file management.
The app has an intuitive text editor, a built-in media player that supports streaming, and support for plugins for major cloud services like Google Drive, Dropbox, and Microsoft OneDrive. Moreover, the app has an integral support for over 30 different languages.
#09 – X-plore File Manager
X-plore File Manager is not just a file manager but also a dual-pane file explorer that provides a complete data management support to help you with numerous other tasks including app management, PDF file viewer, hex viewer, and completely configurable shortcut keys and buttons.
You can even access the shared files located on your Android device right from your computer using the LAN sharing functionality.
#10 – File Expert – File Manager
File Expert file manager is developed by GMobile and the developers make sure that the app is free from bugs and errors by releasing frequent updates. The app gives you complete access to all the files and folders stored on your device, and you can explore and find the files you are looking for by either sorting them by the last modified date or using the alphabetical order.
The app provides built-in support for USB On-The-Go so that you can copy and transfer files to/from the storage attached to your Android device via USB OTG.
Which App Is Your Favorite?
Which one of the Android file manager app is your favorite? I would love to hear your reviews in the comments! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android|Category||Topics|
General Discussions
Can’t find any suitable section to post your question? Use this section to ask for help, or discuss anything and everything related to the Android, mobile, and technology.
20
Android Q/A
Facing any problem with your Android device hardware or software? Ask us - We can help you. You will get expert’s advice and best possible solution for your problem.
149
Tips & Tricks
Discover and discuss all the methods and techniques to get the most out of your Android device. Whether you are a beginner or an expert, here you will find all the best and useful Android related tips, tricks, and customizations to improve the usability.
13
Kodi Android
Kodi is a free and open-source media player software application. You can install Kodi on multiple devices including Android phone and watch Movies, Dramas and Series totally for free.
5
Best Android Apps
With millions of apps and game titles, choosing the best app for Android phone has become an overwhelming task. Rather than spending countless hours on the Play Store to try each app, ask for expert’s opinion here to save your time, efforts and the Internet bandwidth.
46
Android APK Downloads
Need APK File for any app, including paid ones? - Ask us and we will find it for you.
You can also share APK files of any app whether you have downloaded/purchased or developed it yourself. (APK files can be uploaded from editor menu.)
You can also share APK files of any app whether you have downloaded/purchased or developed it yourself. (APK files can be uploaded from editor menu.)
8
Android Games
Gaming on the Android platform is getting bigger and better with the release of new and awesome game titles. Here you can discuss your favorite game apps and ask for recommendations with your fellow gamers.
11
Android Rooting
Got stuck in the rooting process or need any package or trick? We can help.
Discuss anything related to Android rooting.
Discuss anything related to Android rooting.
10
Mobile Phones
All the discussions related to Android mobile phones. Ask questions and suggestions about upcoming smartphone models, newly released mobile phones, rumors, reviews, news, and updates related to Android phones.
5
Site Feedback
Discussion about this site, its organization, how it works, and how we can improve it.
0- We have thoroughly reviewed 15 best Android VPN apps to help you open blocked websites. There are free as well as paid VPN apps.
- With these best VPN apps, you can hide your real IP address to remain anonymous and bypass geo-restrictions for premium streaming services like Hulu, Netflix, and YouTube.
- VPN apps for Android are designed to help protect your identity and anonymity while you are online and using online services like social media or websites.
- Use Virtual Private Network (VPN apps) on your Android smartphone and tablet devices to keep your personal data and information safe and secure from online spying.
- We have featured VPNs that comes with kill switch to make sure you are never connected to the Internet without VPN and never reveal your real identity.
Are you looking for the best free and paid Android VPN apps that let you access blocked websites, can protect your online anonymity, and enables you to bypass censorship? You have come to the right place.
In the list below, we have reviewed the 15 best Android VPN apps (including free and paid VPNs) that allow you to unblock blocked and censored websites, provides unlimited bandwidth along with high-speed servers so that you can browse the Internet anonymously without restrictions.
Best Android VPN apps to access blocked sites
We, at BestForAndroid headquarters, have manually checked and reviewed each VPN app for Android so that you won’t have to waste any time to search for the best ones! You can just simply go ahead and install the one you like from the list below to open blocked sites on your Android smartphone. 😉
1. ExpressVPN
ExpressVPN is a dedicated Virtual Private Network app specifically designed for Android devices while keeping in mind the ease of use for all of its users. The app allows you to easily switch between locations along with the ability to detect and warn you about any wireless network. You will find a kill switch for enhanced all round security while you are browsing internet on your device.
With over three-thousand servers spread across hundred and sixty locations around the world and support for more than ninety countries, ExpressVPN provides great speed and have support for over five devices including Android, Windows, Mac, and Linux so you can enjoy safe and secure internet connectivity on all of your devices.
- May not be a cheapest option out of all the VPNs mentioned in the list but definitely one of the best virtual private network services out there as they offers money back guarantee.
- 24/7 live chat support for all of its customers which aims to resolve any issue that you have been experiencing at any given moment.
- Provides great AES 256-bit encryption for secure and safe internet browsing experience no matter whether you are using public WiFi or connected to private network.
- Supports up to five devices at a time, which means you can add your smartphone, tablet, TV set top box, laptop, and you are still going to have a free login capacity.
Download ExpressVPN app for Android
2. IPVanish
IPVanish is a completely safe, secure VPN app that takes your privacy very seriously, and do not record any activity or internet data while you are connected through the virtual private network app. It is one of the best selection to hide your IP address and get yourself a completely new identity while encrypting your connection.
With more than thirteen hundred servers spread across over seventy-five locations, IPVanish is one of the fastest VPN service in the world. Although there is a huge coverage but the app is designed to handle load through API load balancing technique that suggests you the fastest VPN server for your connection based on your current proximity, location, and ping speed.
- Provides encrypted internet connectivity for up to ten devices at the same time, which means you can share a single account with your friends and family members.
- You will get phone and live chat support round the clock in case you run into any problem or issue.
- IPVanish does not store any of your personal data or online activity log so you are free to browse the internet without being traced or tracked by the spies or government agencies.
- Support for industry level AES-256 encryption with advanced standard for secure internet access.
- Provides 7-days money back guarantee, in case you are not satisfied with their services then you can easily get your whole amount back and try another VPN app from the list.
Download IPVanish app for Android
3. VyprVPN
VyprVPN is popular for high-speed servers as it provides faster speeds for streaming, gaming as well as downloading without any throttling. They are able to provide this outstanding service because they maintain and manager their own VPN servers that ensures best performance and reliability without compromising on the security.
You will get one of the strongest Internet unblocking with the use of Chameleon protocol that let you bypass any firewall whether you are at school, work, or using public internet while traveling. This is specifically designed to make your connection unrecognizable by ISP and even government agencies. VyprVPN also gives you NAT firewall along with a zero data logging policy for added security.
- Native Kill Switch for unstable internet connections that makes sure all the internet traffic is stopped when VyprNPN is disabled or disconnected for enhanced security.
- Similar to ExpressVPN mentioned above, you will get 30 days money back guarantee so that you can fully try the app and see if it suitable for you or not before continuing your contract.
- Simultaneously use a single VyprVPN subscription on over five devices that can be your smartphone, laptop, personal computer, tablet, and TV device for movie streaming.
- Choose IP address from over seventy countries and seven hundred servers around the world to bypass geo-restriction and enjoy all the exclusive content from any part of the world.
Download VyprVPN app for Android
4. Windscribe VPN
Windscribe VPN is very much different from the other VPNs mentioned on the list as it provides you with free 10GB of bandwidth every month without any subscription or credit card details, all they really need is your valid email ID. And you are allowed to use this free data wherever you want whether it is on your smartphone or laptop or web browser, even for downloading and streaming.
If you really like the free services of Windscribe VPN services then you can upgrade your virtual private network services to a paid version that gives you unlimited bandwidth. And unlimited connections too. Along with an access to servers in over sixty countries globally and they have more than a hundred of data centers so that you always get a great connection speed.
- Support for truly unlimited number of devices whether it is your smartphone, tablet, personal computer, web browser, smart TV, or set top box for movie streaming.
- You can choose from different VPN protocols including Stealth, TCP, UDP, OpenVPN, and IKEv2.
- The free version offers you select from over ten locations around the world including UK, US, and Canada.
- Built-in ability to block advertisements from websites and Android apps while at the same time help you access blocked websites and geo-restricted content in services like Netflix.
Download Windscribe VPN app for Android
5. NordVPN
If you are looking for the safest and secure VPN app for your daily usage then look no further, NordVPN is the app you need because it provides you an access to specialty servers that comes with an added of security and allows you to connect to P2P, Double VPN, and Onion Over VPN servers. You will also get TCP and UDP protocols, depending on the reliability and speed of your internet.
With over fifty three hundred servers located in more than fifty nine counties, which gives you an amazing opportunity to have the fastest VPN experience because there is a large number of servers to decrease ping rate while keeping the speed at its peak. NordVPN provides you with a military grade encryption so that no one can peek into your internet activity, even if you are using a public network.
- Support for up to six devices at a time, you can easily secure all of your devices as well as web browsing experience on your computers using proxy extensions.
- Have a strict no logs policy that means the company does not collect, track, or share your data.
- For added security and protection of your identity online, there is automatic kill switch that actively detects your internet connectivity and in case the connection drops then this will block your device from accessing internet.
- Blocks malware through CyberSec that protects you against cyber threat and malware.
Download NordVPN app for Android
6. Private Internet Access VPN
Private Internet Access helps you stay anonymous whether you are using private WiFi, public WiFi, or unsecured hotspots. Using PIA VPN, you can quickly hide your IP address while keeping your connection completely encrypted, which allows you to defeat censorship and access blocked websites and apps.
Private Internet Access gives you access to more than three thousand three hundred servers located in over fifty different countries to make sure you are browsing the internet at the best speeds while maintaining your privacy. What’s good about this VPN is that it allows you to use a single account on over ten devices at a time.
- PIA VPN fully encrypts your internet traffic by creating several layers of security that prevents unauthorized access to your data while keeping you anonymous.
- Once the VPN is enabled, you will be able to open blocked websites, apps, and streaming content and bypass Internet censorship.
- Internet Kill Switch that ensures you are using internet through Private Internet Access VPN only and don’t accidently leak your online identity.
- Ability to block all kinds of advertisements, malware, and trackers whether it is in the website or Android app.
Download Private Internet Access VPN app for Android
7. Betternet Free VPN Proxy
Betternet Technologies has designed an Android app so that you can enjoy their free VPN proxy services on your portable devices too. The app has no advertisements, and you don’t even have to fill any registration form. Just install the app, tap on the “Connect” button, and you are ready to go.
With Betternet Free VPN Proxy, you can easily bypass and unblock any website and apps that have been censored by your Internet service provider or the government.
- Keeps your connection anonymous using VPN, which modifies your IP address and masks your location to hide all of your usage activities.
- The free version of Betternet comes with advertisements, if you want to remove the ads then you have to upgrade to premium version.
- Let you browse and surf internet anonymously without the risk of getting your online activities tracked by any third party.
Download Betternet VPN for Android
8. SuperVPN Free VPN Client
SuperVPN is a free VPN client that has been developed by SuperSoftTech and is available for free. With just a simple tap on the button, you will be automatically connected to the nearest VPN server that will help you in protecting your privacy and safeguard you from all sort of third-party tracking systems.
To be able to enjoy this free VPN service, you don’t even have to register or perform any settings on your device. Simply install the app and relish the super power of SuperVPN app without any limitations.
- Helps you access blocked websites as well as geographically blocked sites, apps, and streamable content.
- SuperVPN has no bandwidth limitation and no speed limitations.
- The app originally offers you twenty days of free trial and after that, if you want to continue using the free version then you will be allowed to use it for sixty minutes per session.
Download SuperVPN for Android
9. Hola Free VPN Proxy Unblocker
Hola is one of the most simplified VPN proxy apps on the Google Play Store. Their wide range of servers along with a free peer-to-peer VPN service that will give you freedom to access any website and use any app from around the world without imposing any limitations.
Hola VPN make use of their breakthrough peer-to-peer network to help you in accessing any blocked site while at the same time accelerates your web browsing experience and reduce data costs using compression technology.
- Provide you with a free of cost peer-to-peer VPN service that helps you unlock any blocked website or app.
- There are two types of VPN services offered by Hola VPN i.e. a completely free community based VPN and subscription based where you don’t have to be linked with the community.
- The VPN is fully compatible with wide range of devices and web browsers including computers, PlayStation, TV devices, Android, Chrome, and Firefox.
Download Hola VPN Proxy
10. VPN Proxy Master
VPN Proxy Master has also designed an Android app to make it stress-free for you to enjoy their free proxy service. Their VPN servers are located around the world that can serve you with the high speed and free of cost proxy so that you can consume all blocked or geo-restricted media on your Android device.
The app can also be used to bypass Internet filters or censorship imposed by the government or your network administrator, whether you are in school or office, it will work everywhere without any restriction.
- VPN Proxy Master is absolutely free, you can start using with just a click of a button and it doesn’t require any signup or registration.
- Offers you anonymous browsing experience that encrypts your internet traffic while giving you a new identity by changing your IP address.
- No matter where you are and what type of internet connection you are using, it is completely safe to use internet and surf the web.
- Ability to unblock websites, apps, games and even the geo-restricted content offered by Netflix.
Download VPN Proxy Master
11. SurfEasy Secure Android VPN
SurfEasy Inc. is a part of Opera Software and one of the top developer at the Google Play Store and has been trusted by many. They have designed an Android VPN app with a slick and intuitive UI.
The SurfEasy VPN app features a secure web browsing experience by encrypting all of your Internet data to maintain your anonymity on the Web whether you are using the Internet in an airport, office, school, or coffee shop.
12. OpenVPN Connect
OpenVPN is a popular VPN service provider on the Internet, and they have developed an Android app in an attempt to make it easier for its existing users to avail their services on their Android devices. It is one of the high-performance VPN clients for the Private Tunnel VPN, OpenVPN Access Server, and OpenVPN Community.
The app designed while keeping in mind the needs and requirements of the daily VPN users while at the same time keeping the app battery-friendly so that it won’t drain a lot of battery power and will let you use the Internet anonymously for longer.
13. Touch VPN Free Unlimited Proxy WiFi Privacy
The Touch VPN unlimited proxy app is developed by TouchVPN Inc. for those Internet users who are looking for a reliable VPN service that protects their identity and keep their data secure from the prying eyes of the intruders and hackers while on the Internet.
The app along with the strong SSL encryption will give you freedom to access the Internet even on any unprotected Wi-Fi hotspot or unsecured wireless network while keeping your privacy intact.
14. SpeedVPN Free VPN Proxy
SpeedVPN is a free VPN proxy app by GoSpeed Software and is one of the best VPN clients for Android devices. It provides you with one-click access to the secured and protected proxy servers located around the world including the United States and Canada along with an unlimited bandwidth allocation.
Using this app, you can unblock any geographically restricted website or app in your country. Every time you connect to the SpeedVPN servers, you will get over three hours of uninterrupted connectivity. And you can even extend allocated time by an hour before it ends.
15. FlashVPN Free VPN Proxy
FlashVPN is one of the most reliable and highly trusted VPN and proxy service provider app on the Play Store. The app has millions of active users who gave an average rating of 4.3 out of 5.
The app is targeted towards those users who are beginners and have no knowledge about the operation of VPN proxy service. So all you need to do is click on the connect button and access the encrypted connection to the Internet without any configuration and time limitation.
Which Android VPN app is your favorite?
Out of the 15 Android VPNs we have reviewed, do you have any favorite free or paid VPN app for Android that you most frequently use?
Share with our community in the comments section below, we would love to hear about your views and opinions! 🙂
You have not listed PureVPN.I have installed it in my android phone its working fine.
Thank you for your suggestion @katebooney:disqus. We did try PureVPN, unfortunately it didn’t perform well and was quite unstable during our tests.
VPN establish a point to point connection by which it allows a remote access using encryption and the best part is you can hide your ip address with single one tap connection with the best VPN apps for android and enjoy more freedom online with unlimited bandwidth.
i refer HMA VPN for android.
HMA is best but its paid. CyberGhost is also a good option.
NordVPNHi there, I was very annoyed by the autocorrect feature on my Samsung Galaxy S8 and I couldn’t find the options to turn it off. Please give me the steps to turn that off.
Hey, it is pretty simple. Just follow these simple steps.
Oh, thanks mate. I was also really annoyed by the auto correct thing.
Can you tell me how to do this on the Samsung Galaxy S7? I will be really thankful.
Sure man. It is exactly the same as Samsung Galaxy S8. Just follow the above steps and there you’ll find all the options to turn on or off all of these settings.
From the Home screen, select “Apps” > “Settings” > “General management” (if an option) > Language and input
Select “On-screen keyboard
Select the keyboard you are using. Most likely “Samsung keyboard
The “Smart typing” section is the one you are interested.What information do we collect?
We collect information from you when you register on our site and gather data when you participate in the forum by reading, writing, and evaluating the content shared here.
When registering on our site, you may be asked to enter your name and e-mail address. You may, however, visit our site without registering. Your e-mail address will be verified by an email containing a unique link. If that link is visited, we know that you control the e-mail address.
When registered and posting, we record the IP address that the post originated from. We also may retain server logs which include the IP address of every request to our server.
What do we use your information for?
Any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways:
- To personalize your experience — your information helps us to better respond to your individual needs.
- To improve our site — we continually strive to improve our site offerings based on the information and feedback we receive from you.
- To improve customer service — your information helps us to more effectively respond to your customer service requests and support needs.
- To send periodic emails — The email address you provide may be used to send you information, notifications that you request about changes to topics or in response to your user name, respond to inquiries, and/or other requests or questions.
How do we protect your information?
We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you enter, submit, or access your personal information.
What is your data retention policy?
We will make a good faith effort to:
- Retain server logs containing the IP address of all requests to this server no more than 90 days.
- Retain the IP addresses associated with registered users and their posts no more than 5 years.
Do we use cookies?
Yes. Cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computer’s hard drive through your Web browser (if you allow). These cookies enable the site to recognize your browser and, if you have a registered account, associate it with your registered account.
We use cookies to understand and save your preferences for future visits and compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future. We may contract with third-party service providers to assist us in better understanding our site visitors. These service providers are not permitted to use the information collected on our behalf except to help us conduct and improve our business.
Do we disclose any information to outside parties?
We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. This does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our site, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses.
Third party links
Occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third party products or services on our site. These third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. We therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. Nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites.
Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act Compliance
Our site, products and services are all directed to people who are at least 13 years old or older. If this server is in the USA, and you are under the age of 13, per the requirements of COPPA (Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act), do not use this site.
Online Privacy Policy Only
This online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our site and not to information collected offline.
Your Consent
By using our site, you consent to our web site privacy policy.
Changes to our Privacy Policy
If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page.
This document is CC-BY-SA. It was last updated May 31, 2013.What I found out is that any smart TV running any version of the Android operating system will absolutely support the installation of Google Play Store as well as any third-party apps through APK. In case, smart TV does not have Android. Then there is no way to install any app on it.
However, you can easily convert your smart TV into Android TV by purchasing an Android set-top box and connect it using HDMI.
So the first thing we have to do is find out if the smart TV we have is compatible with the Google Play Store.
Is My Smart TV Compatible With Play Store?
The smart TV you have in front of you may have preinstalled apps like YouTube, Netflix, Hulu, Facebook, Internet browser. TV manufacturers like Samsung, TCL, Sony, and LG sell their LED and LCD TVs with some handful of apps preinstalled. In most of the cases, smart TV manufactured by Hisense, Toshiba, and Philips doesn’t come with any app.
If there is no way to download or install new apps or update the existing ones, then there is a possibility that your TV is not compatible with Google Play Store.
But we have a way to find that out. Here’s how:
To find out if your smart TV is compatible with Play Store, on the TV controller, look for a Home button. Then within the options available, see if you can find an icon for Play Store.
If it’s not seen anywhere, then the next step you have to perform is to look for the operating system running on your smart TV. You can find that in the Settings menu. If it says Android, then it means you can install Google Play Store, a tutorial for which is available in the next step.
However, if you are unable to find Android, then it means you have a simple, smart TV with limited capabilities. The best alternative, in this case, is to buy any Android-enabled set-top box and connect it to your TV via HDMI cable. Once purchased, you can then follow the steps below.
How To Install Google Play Store On Smart TV?
There are chances that although your smart TV is running Android OS, the manufacturer didn’t install Google Play Store for some reason. Here we have a guide that you can follow to install Play Store on your smart TV:
Prerequisites
Things you are required to have:
- Smart TV running Android OS,
- File Explorer app on Android,
- Computer/Laptop, and
- A USB Flash Drive.
Tutorial
Here is a step-by-step tutorial:
- Using your computer, download the Play Store apk from our APK section.
- Connect USB flash drive to your computer/laptop.
- Copy the apk file you just downloaded and paste it onto the flash drive.
- Connect that flash drive to your smart TV.
- Using the built-in file explorer already installed on your TV, access the USB flash drive and navigate to the folder where you have downloaded Play Store apk.
- Select the apk file to start the installation process.
Once the process is completed, you should be able to find Google Play Store in the list of apps.
How To Install Third-Party Apps On Smart TV?
The procedure to install third-party apps on your smart TV is very much similar to the step I have mentioned in the previous section.
However, you may find the procedure mentioned above a bit lengthy and time consuming, so as an alternative, I will recommend you to open the Play Store on your smart TV and first install the app called Send Files To TV.
Send Files To TV is a powerful little app that makes the whole third-party app installation procedure simple and straightforward. Not only that, but you can also even send movies, pictures, music, and any huge file wirelessly to your smart TV directly from your PC or Android phone or tablet device.
Rest assured, you would no longer need to use your USB flash drive once you have this properly set-up.
Prerequisites
Things you will need for Send Files To TV app to work:
- Android Smart TV,
- Windows PC or Android smartphone/tablet device,
- All of your devices must need to be on the same Wi-Fi network.
Tutorial
Here is a guide on how to setup and use Send Files To TV:
- On your Android Smart TV, open Play Store and search for Send Files To TV.
- Install the app.
- If you want to transfer files from your Android smartphone/tablet device to your smart TV, then install the app from Play Store on that device. Else,
- If you want to transfer files from your Windows PC/laptop to your smart TV, then download and install Send Files To TV software from SourceForge.
Once all the installation has been done. Open Send Files To TV on both devices, i.e. Smart TV and phone or Windows PC.
Then follow this guide where I am going to show you how to send files from your Android phone to Smart TV:
- On my Smart TV, I will select Receive. That will open a progress screen where I will be able to track my transfers.
- On my Android phone, I will select Send. That will open a “Select File” screen with all the folders on my device.
- I can now select any file or even a whole folder to send to my Smart TV. Tapping and holding any item will allow you to select multiple files/folders.
- Once the selection has been made, tap on the tick icon located at the top right corner.
- A device selection screen will appear, tap on the device you want to send these files to.
- A progress bar will appear on both devices showing the transfer progress.
That’s it. Now sit back and relax. Selected files will be sent to the smart TV within a matter of minutes (depending on the file size).
Now, using this same procedure, you can quickly transfer almost any third-party apps like APK files including Kodi to your Smart TV and install it using any file explorer app.
You can even watch and stream full-length movies and TV shows on your Android TV for free without any fee using these best movie streaming apps that are similar to Kodi. And I will also recommend you get a VPN to protect yourself and your identity.
What Are The Play Store Alternatives To Install Apps?
Even though the official Google Play Store is the best out there because of better compatibility and superior security, however, there are moments when you are looking for some specific app but wasn’t able to find it in the Play Store.
That’s when the hunt for Play Store alternatives begins.
There are handfuls of third-party app store for a smart TV that let you install apps, but the major drawback is lack of content regulation and security issues. So I won’t be responsible if something goes wrong while using any of these.
You can find a lot of third-party apps and APKs on all the above-mentioned alternative stores and install them on your Android smart TV and other devices.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidThis is a Civilized Place for Public Discussion
Please treat this discussion forum with the same respect you would a public park. We, too, are a shared community resource — a place to share skills, knowledge and interests through ongoing conversation.
These are not hard and fast rules, merely aids to the human judgment of our community. Use these guidelines to keep this a clean, well-lighted place for civilized public discourse.
Improve the Discussion
Help us make this a great place for discussion by always working to improve the discussion in some way, however small. If you are not sure your post adds to the conversation, think over what you want to say and try again later.
The topics discussed here matter to us, and we want you to act as if they matter to you, too. Be respectful of the topics and the people discussing them, even if you disagree with some of what is being said.
One way to improve the discussion is by discovering ones that are already happening. Please spend some time browsing the topics here before replying or starting your own, and you’ll have a better chance of meeting others who share your interests.
Be Agreeable, Even When You Disagree
You may wish to respond to something by disagreeing with it. That’s fine. But, remember to criticize ideas, not people. Please avoid:
- Name-calling.
- Ad hominem attacks.
- Responding to a post’s tone instead of its actual content.
- Knee-jerk contradiction.
Instead, provide reasoned counter-arguments that improve the conversation.
Your Participation Counts
The conversations we have here set the tone for everyone. Help us influence the future of this community by choosing to engage in discussions that make this forum an interesting place to be — and avoiding those that do not.
Discourse provides tools that enable the community to collectively identify the best (and worst) contributions: favorites, bookmarks, likes, flags, replies, edits, and so forth. Use these tools to improve your own experience, and everyone else’s, too.
Let’s try to leave our park better than we found it.
If You See a Problem, Flag It
Moderators have special authority; they are responsible for this forum. But so are you. With your help, moderators can be community facilitators, not just janitors or police.
When you see bad behavior, don’t reply. It encourages the bad behavior by acknowledging it, consumes your energy, and wastes everyone’s time. Just flag it. If enough flags accrue, action will be taken, either automatically or by moderator intervention.
In order to maintain our community, moderators reserve the right to remove any content and any user account for any reason at any time. Moderators do not preview new posts in any way; the moderators and site operators take no responsibility for any content posted by the community.
Always Be Civil
Nothing sabotages a healthy conversation like rudeness:
- Be civil. Don’t post anything that a reasonable person would consider offensive, abusive, or hate speech.
- Keep it clean. Don’t post anything obscene or sexually explicit.
- Respect each other. Don’t harass or grief anyone, impersonate people, or expose their private information.
- Respect our forum. Don’t post spam or otherwise vandalize the forum.
These are not concrete terms with precise definitions — avoid even the appearance of any of these things. If you’re unsure, ask yourself how you would feel if your post was featured on the front page of the New York Times.
This is a public forum, and search engines index these discussions. Keep the language, links, and images safe for family and friends.
Keep It Tidy
Make the effort to put things in the right place, so that we can spend more time discussing and less cleaning up. So:
- Don’t start a topic in the wrong category.
- Don’t cross-post the same thing in multiple topics.
- Don’t post no-content replies.
- Don’t divert a topic by changing it midstream.
- Don’t sign your posts — every post has your profile information attached to it.
Rather than posting “+1” or “Agreed”, use the Like button. Rather than taking an existing topic in a radically different direction, use Reply as a Linked Topic.
Post Only Your Own Stuff
You may not post anything digital that belongs to someone else without permission. You may not post descriptions of, links to, or methods for stealing someone’s intellectual property (software, video, audio, images), or for breaking any other law.
Powered by You
This site is operated by your friendly local staff and you, the community. If you have any further questions about how things should work here, open a new topic in the site feedback category and let’s discuss! If there’s a critical or urgent issue that can’t be handled by a meta topic or flag, contact us via the staff page.
Terms of Service
Yes, legalese is boring, but we must protect ourselves – and by extension, you and your data – against unfriendly folks. We have a Terms of Service describing your (and our) behavior and rights related to content, privacy, and laws. To use this service, you must agree to abide by our TOS.Shayan_2002
$ Tech Enthusiast
$ Camera Enthusiast
$ love Music
$ love Photography
$ Professional Macro Photographer
$ Tech EnthusiastAre you looking for some of the best offline Android games that do not require the Internet connection and you can freely play without Internet or data connection? Here you will find the ten best gaming apps.
Since we have access to the Internet on our mobile devices all the time, everywhere we go. And most of the recent Android games require you stay connected to the Internet for an uninterrupted gaming experience.
Unfortunately, we can’t stay online all the time. For example, when you are on a road trip and want to save your phone’s battery power but still want to keep yourself busy with games, or when you are on a long flight and want some entertainment.
But you don’t need to worry, I have found ten best offline Android games that work without the Internet connection and will keep you entertained for hours. 😀
1. Plants vs. Zombies 2
The Plants vs. Zombies is an addictive Android game that let you join and lead some of the most intense battles between plants and zombies. You can assemble your army of plants, increase their overall resistance, and give them a boost with Plant Food.
PvZ 2 is developed by Electronic Arts and receives frequent updates every once in a while to add new features like new worlds, great plants, and the sliest zombies to make sure that you won’t get bored playing similar stages.
- Level up in the game by earning prizes, points and completing quests.
- Frequently updated with new worlds and extras.
- Offers in-app purchases for premium plants.
- The game has a bug that might make you lose some game progress after an update.
- There is no other way to unlock premium plants than using the in-app purchase option.
- Consume a lot of space (around 650 MB).
2. Gangstar Vegas
The Gangstar Vegas is an open-world, third-person shooter and action game, which features realistic graphics and excellent gameplay that matches the popular game title Grand Theft Auto series.
The game is developed by Gameloft and available free to download. It contains over eighty action-packed missions, ability to explore the big Las Vegas city, purchase a huge variety of virtual weapons and let you freely drive any vehicle during the gameplay.
- Frequent updates promises to add new items, vehicles, outfits, and weaponries.
- Offers in-app purchases for premium items.
- Some missions are next to impossible to pass.
- Some stability issues that causes lag during the gameplay.
- The game data requires massive storage space (more than 3 GB).
3. Dumb Ways To Die 2: The Games
Dumb Ways To Die 2: The Games is a sequel to the popular Dumb Ways To Die, which is a simple, humorous and the best time-killing game. The gameplay comprises of quick and timed levels where you have to try your best to keep those small characters from dying.
Eventually, you will experience that the difficulty of the tasks are increasing as the game starts to pick up pace. The developers have used vivid colors to represent characters as well as the scenery making the overall gameplay simple yet powerful for everyone.
- There is a wide variety of levels to keep you busy.
- New levels and stages are added every month.
- The game becomes unresponsive and glitch at times.
- Contains ads.
4. Color Switch
Color Switch is an addictive action and puzzle type game for Android where you have to carefully tap the ball to make sure it pass through each hurdle without touching the wrong color. And you will get to collect a star whenever you cross a hurdle. Then those collected stars can be used to purchase/unlock balls.
The game has been added to the Google Play Editor’s Choice list and becomes the number one addictive game of the year around the world. There are over twenty-four game modes to choose from, and each mode contains over hundred thought-provoking levels.
- Receive frequent updates and bug fixes.
- New game modes, levels, and balls are added with every update.
- Active developers and support team.
- Contains ads.
- Touch or tap might become unresponsive at times.
5. Bad Piggies
Bad Piggies is a puzzle-based game where your primary objective is to collect maximum stars in each level to make sure you have enough stars throughout the way to complete that episode. However, there is a slight twist. You have to build an ultimate machine for pigs using the huge collection of parts and have to make sure that it is durable enough to reach the eggs successfully without blowing into pieces.
The game Bad Piggies is developed by Rovio Entertainment Ltd., the same developer who created some of the most addictive Angry Birds series. There are over two hundred challenging levels, and you can unlock special levels if you managed to collect three stars by completing all the objectives in each level.
- Receive frequent updates.
- New parts and objects are added with every update.
- Some levels might be challenging to complete with all three stars.
- Contains ads.
- No premium or paid version.
6. Beach Buggy Racing
If you are into racing games, then you must have already heard about the Beach Buggy Blitz. And the Beach Buggy Racing is its follow-up development by the Vector Unit team. It is a brilliant game with some intense race modes!
The game offers you an action filled off-road cart racing chaos where you can race against competitors, and each of them will have their own unique and individual capabilities. The game allows you to build a collection of powerups, unlock a wide range of cars that you can drive in six different modes and a huge selection of race tracks.
- Active support and development team.
- Does not require a lot of space for installation (about 100 MB).
- Offers in-app purchases.
- For first-time players, it will take some time and skills to get used to the handling.
- Some races might be harder and challenging to complete.
7. Assassin’s Creed Pirates
Do you like to play action games? If yes, then Assassin’s Creed Pirates will be one of those games that you should have on your Android phone. You will be playing as Alonzo Batilla, who is young and determined pirate captain, challenge empires, can break the rules and collect gold.
To fight with your enemies and show your battle skills, you can choose from a wide variety of weapons, and then defeat them to become a true legend. Moreover, the cutting-edge graphics and the three-dimensional visuals will make your gaming experience more realistic.
- Frequent updates and bug fixes to improve the gameplay experience.
- Offers in-app purchases.
- Lacks cloud storage to save game progress.
- You might experience a little bit of freezing and lag during gameplay.
8. Unblock Me
The Unblock Me is one of the most addictive puzzles and problem-solving game for Android that will train your mind and improve your logical skills with its challenging levels. Your key goal in every level is to unblock the red block out of the board by sliding the other blocks out of the way. And you have to achieve that in the least possible moves.
There are four difficulty levels to choose from and have two different game modes i.e. Challenge Mode and Relax Mode. That will allow you to make sure that your mind can go through various challenges while keeping yourself mentally fit.
- Very active developer support.
- Receive frequent updates and bug fixes.
- Advertisements can be removed through in-app purchase.
- Contains ads.
- Multiplayer mode might malfunction sometime.
9. Roll The Ball
Roll The Ball is another addictive puzzle based game that is mixed up with sliding and unblocking, which makes it even more addictive and brainstorming for your mind. The game consists of various puzzle-solving components including sliding, physics, maze, and no time limit.
The game has thousands of classic and challenging levels that you can play for hours, at your pace and that too without any limitation. The game also awards you with daily bonuses and gifts that can be helpful for you to solve hard puzzles.
- Supports cloud saving.
- Synchronize and compare your game progress with friends through Google Play Leaderboard and Achievements.
- An ad-free version can be purchased for $1.99 through in-app purchases.
- Contains ads. A lot of ads. (TIP: if you play without an Internet you won’t see any ads)
10. Crazy Kitchen
Are you looking for a fun way to improve your cooking skills? If yes, then Crazy Kitchen is the best app for you, as it will make you a cook at one of the craziest kitchens and assigns you different cooking tasks that you need to complete within the given time.
You will experience the ultimate craziness of the kitchen, and you will face the final challenge to satisfy the needs and hunger of your customers. The game has some of the best visuals and includes more than five hundred exciting levels that will test your cooking skills.
- Receive frequent updates and bug fixes.
- New game modes and levels are added with every update.
- In-app purchases for premium items.
- Contains ads.
Which Offline Android Game Is Your Favorite?
I know this list is not exhaustive, and there are a lot of game titles that can be played offline on Android without the Internet connection, some of the other games include Subway Surfers, Temple Run, Fruit Ninja, Hill Climb Racing, Townsmen.
Which offline Android games are on the top of your gaming list? Please share with me in the comments down below, I would love to hear about them! 😀
The 8 ball pool is always asking for update but there is no updates. What can I do? Please solve it- This is one of the most comprehensive list of movie streaming and downloading apps for Android.
- We have reviewed more than twenty working apps that will allow you to stream as well as download movies from all genres whether they are newly released, classic or trending.
- Using these apps, you can watch your favorite movies on your Android smartphone and tablet devices even when you are offline.
- As a bonus, some of these movie-streaming apps have a dedicated TV shows directory that allows you to watch all the latest and your favorite TV shows too.
Believe it or not, we all want to watch movies whether we are traveling or during our weekends but the problem is many of us cannot figure out how to find and watch movies on our mobile phone for free without paying any subscription fee.
To help you out, here we have handpicked best free movie streaming apps that allows you to watch free movies on your Android phone and tablet devices. Some of these apps we have reviewed let you to watch movies even when you are offline, thanks to the native download feature.
But first, we are going to give you a little background on movie streaming services and how these services are being provided…
Recently, the trend of movie streaming apps for Android is on the rise and some big brands like Hulu and Netflix have started collaborating with the content creators to offer latest full-length movies as well as TV series in a streamable format on mobile devices for a fixed monthly subscription.
Whereas on the other hand, there are tons of third-party services like Popcorn Time and CinemaBox, who completely skips the legality and offers free movie streaming and downloading service in a wide range of film genres for Android users without any subscription fees or limitations.
Moreover, as an added bonus, you will notice some movie streaming apps we have listed below even offers you TV shows streaming services as well and that too without any charges.
Best Movie Streaming Apps to Download, Stream and Watch Movies on Android
Here in this section we have handpicked and manually reviewed more than 20 best movie-streaming apps for Android that even allows you to download movies on your device so that you can enjoy while you are offline or traveling:
DISCLAIMER: All the information provided in this article are for informational and educational purpose only. You are solely responsible for all the content you watch, download, or stream using the apps and information provided in this article. We at BestForAndroid don’t support piracy.
1. Tubi TV
Tubi TV is an online full-length movie streaming service which strives to provide all the movies and entertainment content without any cost, so you can free yourself from paying any subscription fees. They have developed a mobile-friendly and optimized app for Android, making it easier for you to stream movies on your mobile device.
You may not be able to find the latest movies, but there are thousands of movie titles from various categories including Comedy, Action, Horror, Adventure, and Drama.
- Perfect choice for anyone looking to stream old movies for free.
- Advertisement supported because there is no subscription fee to stream movies.
Download Tubi TV for Android from here.
2. Popcorn Time – Watch free movie apps
Popcorn Time is a torrent based movie streaming service provider. The app provides you with easy access to all the latest and favorite movies for real-time streaming. It has its movie database that receives update frequently by searching for the best movies torrents from all around the web.
And unlike any other streaming apps, Popcorn Time will let you watch as well as download movies without any limitation, anywhere & anytime, so you can enjoy movies for free and without any interruptions. All you need is a consistent connection to the Internet.
- Instantly stream or download any movie in HD 1080p video quality.
- All the latest and popular movie titles are listed on the homepage for quick streaming.
- Native support for movie subtitles.
- For your safety and to mask your movie downloads from the ISP (Internet Service Provider), you may need to have a decent VPN.
Download Popcorn Time for Android from here.
3. ShowBox
ShowBox is a free app to stream and download movies as well as TV shows on your Android device without any limitations. The interface is well-designed and easy to understand. You can create your personalized list of favorite movies and then watch them one-by-one.
If you have a high speed and stable Internet connectivity then you can freely stream movies right from the app. But in case your Internet connection is unsteady then it is better to download the movie and watch it later without any interruption.
- Minimalistically designed, and the feature-rich app makes it easy to stream unlimited movies from over twenty-four different genres including sci-fi, horror, comedy.
- Option to either stream or download movies on your device.
- Sometimes the app unexpectedly closes while streaming movie and requires cache cleaning.
Download ShowBox for Android from here.
4. VideoMix
VideoMix is another popular movie streaming app for Android that allows you to watch your favorite movies and TV series for free on your smartphone and tablet. The app is updated on a daily basis to add all the latest films and keep the content fresh.
The user interface is clean and well-structured to help you find all the movies without many efforts. Also, the film titles are efficiently organized in different categories.
- Option to download movies and TV shows for an ultimate offline viewing experience.
- Ability to seamlessly cast movies to your Google Chromecast device and enjoy the film on the bigger screen with your family.
Download VideoMix for Android from here.
5. PlayBox HD & CinemaBox
CinemaBox is designed and developed by the creators of PlayBox HD, and this is the reason why the interface and functions are the same if you compare both side-by-side. Initially, the developers introduced their free movie streaming service with the name of PlayBox HD but then later relaunched as CinemaBox, which is the latest and current app to stream movies.
The app provides you with a no-subscription and free access to tons of movies and TV shows from all the different categories and genres. The app even offers native support for Chromecast for streaming on a larger screen.
- The free movies database is updated daily along with a wide variety of sources.
- Supports Kids Mode to give your children access to content suitable for kids only.
- Option to let you download movies and TV shows for offline playback.
Download PlayBox HD/CinemaBox for Android
6. Mobdro Movie Streaming Apps
Mobdro is the most excellent open source app for video and content streaming on the Android device. The discovery feature is designed to help you find videos streaming from around the world, regardless of the topic and language. You can organize the streams by adding them to favorites and then filter those using subjects or language.
Mobdro even allows you to download movies and content so that you can enjoy them while you are traveling or offline. However, the downloading feature is available in the premium version only.
- Clean user interface with an option to discover streamable content from around the world.
- Downloading feature along with an ad-free experience requires a premium subscription.
Download Mobdro for Android from here.
7. Toonmania
Do you want a movie streaming app specially designed for cartoon lovers, which is safe for your kids too? Look no further. Toonmania is the app you should download and install on your Android device.
The app comes jam-packed with all the famous and latest cartoons to keep your kids entertained for countless hours. You can easily search for the cartoon titles, browse through different categories, and find all the popular as well as the latest cartoons available for streaming.
- The app is brilliantly designed and provides a variety of cartoons for free.
- Provides in-depth search, making it easy for you to find any title.
- Ability to add cartoons to your favorites list.
Download Toonmania for Android from here.
8. Hulu – Free streaming apps
Hulu is a popular streaming service provider that gives its users access to watch and stream a wide range of premium television shows, kid shows, and movies on Android smartphones and tablets. Most of the movies and TV series available are current and newly released.
However, speaking of the movies, you will find out that the varieties are quite limited and there aren’t a lot of latest titles to make your selection. The Hulu’s content library is amazingly huge, but most of the content is in 720p HD quality.
Pricing: Dual paid subscription plans – limited commercials @ $7.99 and no ads @ $11.99— on a monthly basis.
- Immeasurable streaming of movies and TV series.
- Native support for Virtual Reality headsets and inclusion of VR immersive content.
- Movie titles are somewhat limited.
- ‘Limited commercial’ subscription plan contains a high amount of lengthy ads.
Download Hulu for Android from here.
9. Google Play Movies & TV
Google Play Movies and TV would be the best choice for anyone who is looking for a reliable service to purchase and rent movies or television series. Moreover, the app is completely compatible with numerous Android-enabled devices including smartphones, tablets, Chromecast, and Smart TV so that you can stream content on any device.
We all are well aware of the fact that YouTube is the most popular video hosting service and media-streaming app on the Internet by Google, and the majority of videos uploaded are free to view. However, Google has collaborated with media corporations and organizations to offer movies as well as some premium channels and TV shows for rental or purchase. The purchase/rental price varies from $1.99 to $19.99 per movie.
- Ability to watch purchased/rented movies and TV series on any device including Smart TV and Chromecast.
- Option to download content for offline viewing.
- Content are available in various video quality including SD (480p), HD (720p & 1080p), and Ultra HD (4K).
- Rented movies, once you have started watching, will be available for the next 48 hours only.
- Lacks one-time subscription option for frequent movies and series consumers.
Download Google Play Movies & TV from here.
10. Crackle – Free TV & Movies
Crackle is designed and developed by Sony Pictures Entertainment and is a popular app to watch and stream movies as well as TV shows on Android. The app has a huge database of Hollywood movies, TV shows, and some of the exclusive Sony Crackle Originals.
Crackle is compatible with all Android devices and offers all the content for free, so you won’t have to pay even a cent to stream premium movies and shows. To make it easy for you to find the right movie, all the films and TV shows are in their relevant categories including action, drama, comedy, and alike.
Download Crackle for Android from here.
11. CotoMovies
CotoMovies is a movie streaming app that will let you watch hundreds of shows and movies on your Android device. Actually, this is an updated and enhanced version of the popular Bobby Movie Box app. The app has an up-to-date database of movies and shows from a wide range of categories along with the support for subtitles.
With CotoMovies, you can watch free movies and TV shows in both online and offline mode on all of your devices. The watch later functionality will let you add the movies you want to watch in a separate list so that you can easily access them later. The app even has native support to stream content to TV devices like Google Chromecast, Smart TV, and Airplay.
Download CotoMovies for Android from here.
12. Vudu – Watch free movies on Android
With the official Vudu app, you can instantly begin to watch free movies on Android without downloading no matter where you are. You can get yourself registered for free without any contract or subscription charges, and you can start enjoying movie streams in 4K UHD quality along with Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision HDR.
The app also has a Vudu Movies On Us section where you can watch hundreds and thousands of movie titles for free supported by short and limited ads. For some of the exclusive movies and new TV show releases, you can pay rent or purchase it and then download it so that you can watch those titles later whenever you want.
Download Vudu for Android from here.
13. Viewster – Anime and Fandom TV
Viewster is an entertainment app freely available for download through the official Google Play Store. The app doesn’t require you to sign up, and you can almost immediately begin watching anime, sci-fi movies, shows, and documentaries of your choice.
The user interface of Viewster app is user-friendly as the homepage has a newsfeed style where you can find all the featured and recently added entertainment content. The app has channels section where you can see series, shows, and movies from all around the web. You can even follow your favorite channels to personalize your newsfeed further and get updates from the channels you like the most.
Download Viewster for Android from here.
14. UKMovNow
UKMovNow is a free movie streaming app for Android that will keep you entertained for as long as you want with its wide range of Bollywood, Lollywood, Hollywood movies and films in HD quality. The movie database is regularly updated to add new as well as old movies.
The app UKMovNow has a built-in search bar to help you find movies and save time on scrolling massive database and list. If you have a personal watch list or in case you saw any movie, but you want to watch it later then you can either bookmark them or add them to your favorites. One unique aspect of this app is the Request Movie feature, using which you can request for a movie that is not in the database.
Download UKMovNow for Android
15. YouTube
Yes, you won’t have expected YouTube to be in the list of ways to watch free movie apps for Android. Believe it or not, YouTube has one of the biggest databases of absolutely free movies, films, TV shows, anime, documentaries and what not. Moreover, it comes preinstalled on the majority of Android phones and tablet devices, so everything is in easy access.
On YouTube, you can find and explore countless movies, videos, and can even subscribe to your favorite channels without any charges. And the download features allows you to download and watch any content whenever you want, without any restriction regardless of Internet connectivity.
Download YouTube for Android from here.
16. Kodi
Kodi is an open source digital media player app designed and developed by XBMC Foundation for various platforms including the most popular Android OS. The interesting part about Kodi is that the app itself doesn’t have any content or media but the feature to install third-party plugins is what makes it the best to stream movies and TV shows for free.
If you want to watch movies, TV shows, listen to music, or maybe want to download any of that, then you need to configure the Kodi app properly so that it can help you find and stream media content. If you are new or clueless then don’t worry, we already have an in-depth guide on how to watch free movies on Android using Kodi add-ons.
Download Kodi for Android from here.
17. MegaBox HD Movie streaming apps
If you have used the other movie streaming apps like ShowBox, PlayBox, or maybe CinemaBox, then you are going to find the user interface and functionality of the MegaBox HD app identical to them. The app is free from advertisements, and the majority of movies and shows available in the database are in HD quality.
MegaBox HD comes with native support for subtitles as well as the option to download movies and TV shows so that you can enjoy them later. The UI is streamlined which makes it easy to understand and you will find it easy to navigate around and will be able to explore your favorite movies in no time.
Download MegaBox HD for Android
18. BigStar Movies and TV
BigStar Movies and TV app are developed and designed by BigStar TV Incorporation. It brings you a wider range of movies including foreign films, short movies, award-winning independent movies and hundreds and thousands of popular movie titles.
The app doesn’t include much of the Hollywood movies however if you are into short films and documentaries from different genre then this will be the most suitable app for you. Most of the content you are going to find in this app’s database will be free from any charges.
Download Big Star Movies for Android from here.
19. Terrarium TV
Terrarium TV app is one of the best watch free movie apps for Android. It contains a large number of TV shows and movies along with the well-designed, organized, and sleek user interface. Similar to other movie streaming apps included in the list, this app has a native download feature too.
In the Terrarium TV app, you can use the search function to find and explore movies or TV shows stored within their database. Once you have found the one you are looking for, upon opening, you will see all the details of selected movie title including ratings, quality selection, and if you have chosen TV show, then you will see a list of all the seasons and episodes.
Download Terrarium for Android
20. Netflix
Netflix is one of the best and popular apps that provides movie streaming and TV show streaming service on Android devices. It has the best interface and helps you enjoy a wide range of multimedia and entertainment content regardless of your location.
The Netflix database has thousands of TV episodes, movie titles, and films from a variety of genres that you can legally stream and watch on all of your connected devices. All you have to do is pay a little monthly subscription fee, and then you will get access to unlimited content without any limitation.
Download Netflix for Android from here.
21. Amazon Prime Video
With the Amazon Prime Video app for Android, you can stream, watch, and download all the popular movies, TV shows, films, and exclusive entertainment content. The downloading feature works on both, cellular as well as WiFi network so that you can download and watch no matter where you are.
Moreover, if you an Indian customer/user of Amazon Prime, you will be able to watch and stream hundreds of Bollywood movies and regional hits.
Download Amazon Prime Video for Android from here.
22. Roku
If you own a Roku streaming device then you can use Roku mobile app as a remote control for your Roku player and Roku TV. Using the Roku Channel, it helps you stream hundreds and thousands of movies as well as all the latest TV shows. It is designed and developed by Roku Inc.
The app not only allows you to stream movies and let you control your Roku device, but you can also cast photos, videos and music to your TV directly from your Android device. Moreover, it is easier to insert or type text using your Android phone keyboard.
Download Roku from Google Play Store
23. Pluto TV
Pluto TV is one of the leading movies and TV streaming service ever designed for Android. You can watch and stream hundreds and thousands of movies and TV shows without paying a single cent. And the best thing about this app is that it is completely free and one hundred percent legal.
Pluto TV app does not require you to provide your credit card details, signup for any contracts and neither as you to pay any bill. Not only that, you can even stream all your favorite movies as well as TV shows right onto the big screen through amazing Chromecast feature.
Download Pluto TV for Android from Google Play Store
24. Dove Channel
If you are looking for a family friendly movies app then Dove Channel is the one you should go for as the app is designed specifically for families so that everyone can have an entertainment time together while keeping in mind your family values.
Although the vast majority part of Dove Channel is paid but you can enjoy limited portion of the content and filtered movies offered by them for free. If you want then you can upgrade to the premium version and avail unlimited access to the filtered movie library.
Download Dove Channel from Google Play Store
25. Crunchyroll
If you are into animated movies and TV series then you are going to find Crunchyroll appealing as this app is jam-packed with hundreds and thousands of Japanese anime content and episodes. All of which are available for free. The premium version let you enjoy anime without advertisements and new episodes are made available within one hour after originally airing in Japan.
You can watch all the new shows as well as old anime series. The app is frequently updated with new content every week. Furthermore, all the content available on Crunchyroll is licensed and watching anime through this app supports the creators as well.
Download Crunchyroll from Google Play store
FAQs about Online Movies Streaming on Android
Here are some of the most frequently asked questions we receive from our readers so we have added those into this section along with a brief answer:
How to keep yourself safe and protected while watching free movies online?
As long as you are using a paid app with monthly subscription or using a trial version of that app then you are absolutely safe.
However, in case if you are using any third party APK or apps to stream movies then it means your privacy is at risk. And that’s not it; there are some piracy related risks involved too, which may get you penalized by your ISP (Internet Service Provider) or maybe your government. So we will recommend you to use a reliable VPN service to keep yourself and your identity safe.
How to use VPN service to safely stream and download movies?
VPN is a virtual private network that helps you hide your footprints and real identity so that your internet service provider and government will not be able to find you or know about the content you are trying to stream or the movies that you are downloading. This way, you can safely download as well as stream movies on your mobile devices.
We have a list of best working VPN services and apps that are especially designed for Android devices. You can head over to this link and look for the most suitable one for yourself.
Conclusion
Even though a large number of movie streaming and downloading apps mentioned in the list are not available officially on the Google Play store due to the nature of service they are providing. But most of them are free, reliable, and let you watch as well as download all the latest movies (and TV shows) without any limitation.
Which apps did you try on your Android device from the list above? Were you able to find and stream movies you were searching for on your Android phone?
Please share with us your experience and suggestions in the comments down below. If you know about any movie streaming apps that we haven’t included in the list then share with us, we would love to hear about them! 🙂
Showbox for Android is good. I can upload subtitles with it. And sometimes I also download movies from YouTube with wonderfox hd video converter factory pro and transfer the movies to my phone.|About the Best Android Apps category || ||0 ||789 ||March 4, 2017 |
|What are some of the best free movie downloading apps for android? || ||17 ||4925 ||October 24, 2020 |
|I Am Looking For A App For streaming, but any free one || ||0 ||37 ||October 5, 2020 |
|What are some of the Best Apps to be More Productive? || ||4 ||748 ||October 1, 2020 |
|What are the best Flash on Call Alert app in 2020? || ||3 ||172 ||September 25, 2020 |
|Share Your Favorite Video Player Apps For Android || ||9 ||1259 ||September 24, 2020 |
|What are some best apps to find alternative apps? || ||3 ||188 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Share your favorite wallpaper apps for Android || ||4 ||802 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Best App for Android to Download and Convert Online Video to Mp3 For Listening || ||33 ||8425 ||September 17, 2020 |
|What are the best Free VPN Anddroid Apps? || ||9 ||706 ||August 7, 2020 |
|Best ringtone download application for Android || ||4 ||191 ||July 20, 2020 |
|Which is best Android app for Reddit? || ||10 ||1862 ||July 8, 2020 |
|List: What are some of the best Alarm Clocks for Heavy Sleepers? || ||7 ||955 ||July 6, 2020 |
|Best Professional Photo Editing Apps for Android || ||4 ||932 ||June 30, 2020 |
|What are some of Best Optimizing And Cleaning Apps For Android? || ||6 ||951 ||June 9, 2020 |
|What are some of Best Android Camera apps for Professionals? || ||6 ||948 ||June 7, 2020 |
|What are the best Snapchat saver apps to save photos and videos? || ||9 ||1734 ||June 1, 2020 |
|Which App Is Best For Controlling PC With Android || ||6 ||668 ||May 26, 2020 |
|Fast Charging Apps For Android || ||12 ||850 ||May 1, 2020 |
|What are some best Remote Controller apps For Android Phone? || ||9 ||1848 ||April 15, 2020 |
|What are some best android call recorder || ||9 ||499 ||March 19, 2020 |
|What are some of best apps like Candy Crush Saga? || ||4 ||1218 ||December 18, 2019 |
|Best Apps to Hack In-App Purchases on Android || ||27 ||12282 ||November 27, 2019 |
|What is the most useful android apps in 2018 || ||15 ||2030 ||July 3, 2019 |
|What is the best app locker in your eyes? || ||12 ||1615 ||August 28, 2019 |
|What are some of The best Antivirus Apps for Android? || ||9 ||693 ||August 28, 2019 |
|What are some of the best apps you have ever used? || ||18 ||2125 ||August 5, 2019 |
|Best Paid & Free VPN's For Android - Better one? || ||10 ||1438 ||July 30, 2019 |
|Best Games like GTA For Android || ||5 ||1313 ||July 30, 2019 |
|Best Launcher App for Android || ||5 ||1113 ||July 18, 2019 ||Help. Failed to detect location pokemon Go flygps || ||88 ||159840 ||September 21, 2019 |
|Best Apps to Hack In-App Purchases on Android || ||27 ||12282 ||November 27, 2019 |
|Fly GPS/Fake GPS rubber band issue fix || ||13 ||49044 ||March 15, 2018 |
|I want to access Spotify abroad. Any way to bypass country restriction? || ||9 ||40826 ||September 4, 2020 |
|Best sources to download MovieBox APK & Alternatives || ||24 ||7713 ||September 23, 2020 |
|How to watch/stream live TV channels on Kodi? [Guide] || ||15 ||8836 ||June 28, 2020 |
|Solve Facebook Messenger Consuming Excessive Background Data || ||16 ||24622 ||April 4, 2019 |
|[Tutorial] Pokemon Go++ Location Hack App || ||22 ||10602 ||September 13, 2017 |
|Whatsapp Voice Call Not Ringing || ||9 ||27880 ||May 18, 2020 |
|Best App for Android to Download and Convert Online Video to Mp3 For Listening || ||33 ||8425 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How to Download Chrome Browser On My Mi Box || ||11 ||24491 ||November 21, 2018 |
|How I can get Spotify Premium For Free on Android? || ||29 ||15120 ||August 27, 2020 |
|Pokemon Failed to detect location - Help Required || ||13 ||21372 ||February 27, 2019 |
|How to Download Music from Soundcloud & Spotify on Mobile Phone? || ||29 ||8939 ||August 11, 2020 |
|How to solve Pokemon Go GPS Signal not found issue? || ||15 ||8544 ||May 30, 2018 |
|Spotify Free Premium APK Song Download Problem || ||11 ||7215 ||October 26, 2020 |
|Best Free Ringtones For Android || ||24 ||4194 ||September 23, 2020 |
|What are some of the best free movie downloading apps for android? || ||17 ||4925 ||October 24, 2020 |
|How To Download Any YouTube Video On Android? || ||17 ||2752 ||April 4, 2019 |
|Fly GPS running in circles || ||12 ||4356 ||March 9, 2018 |
|Best Paid & Free VPN's For Android - Better one? || ||10 ||1438 ||July 30, 2019 |
|What is the most useful android apps in 2018 || ||15 ||2030 ||July 3, 2019 |
|What is Easiest Way to Download Online Videos for Offline Viewing? || ||19 ||3172 ||September 22, 2020 |
|Need for speed for android cheats? || ||11 ||4076 ||April 4, 2018 |
|How To Increase The Video Upload Size On Whatsapp (Whatsapp Video Limit) || ||12 ||3644 ||June 11, 2019 |
|Samsung Galaxy S7 Performance Mode. Does it Make Any Difference? || ||11 ||3000 ||February 27, 2018 |
|What is the best app locker in your eyes? || ||12 ||1615 ||August 28, 2019 |
|What are best note taking app for college students? || ||9 ||1796 ||January 4, 2018 |
|What are the best Snapchat saver apps to save photos and videos? || ||9 ||1734 ||June 1, 2020 |
|What are some of the best apps you have ever used? || ||18 ||2125 ||August 5, 2019 |
|What are some of best Games to play on Samsung S8 and Note 8? || ||11 ||2284 ||October 16, 2019 |
|Free Spotify premium! || ||11 ||2098 ||September 25, 2020 |
|Share Your Favorite Video Player Apps For Android || ||9 ||1259 ||September 24, 2020 |
|How To Download Facebook Videos? || ||18 ||1460 ||June 17, 2020 |
|Which is best Android app for Reddit? || ||10 ||1862 ||July 8, 2020 |
|How To Debloat Your Android Phone? || ||9 ||1921 ||January 23, 2018 |
|What are some best Remote Controller apps For Android Phone? || ||9 ||1848 ||April 15, 2020 |
|How to Free Up Space from your Internal Storage || ||13 ||1556 ||April 4, 2019 |
|Which Apps Do You Use First When You Wake Up || ||14 ||1075 ||May 30, 2019 |
|Galaxy s7 edge battery draining while charging || ||20 ||749 ||September 22, 2020 |
|How to Backup Contents of my Android Device to the SD Card || ||10 ||1027 ||May 30, 2019 |
|How to Download Paid Apps For Free On Android || ||10 ||1009 ||April 27, 2018 |
|Asus Zenfone Zoom Constant High Disk Activity with Lag || ||11 ||966 ||July 15, 2018 |
|How to Transfer Pictures from Your Android Device to PC || ||10 ||978 ||September 15, 2020 |
|How to Watch Movies On Kodi? || ||10 ||944 ||May 31, 2018 |
|Which Is The Best Android Phone Of 2018? || ||12 ||858 ||May 12, 2020 |
|Galaxy s7 randomly reboots || ||20 ||672 ||March 12, 2020 |
|Fast Charging Apps For Android || ||12 ||850 ||May 1, 2020 |
|How To Find The Best Apps For Android || ||11 ||868 ||June 11, 2019 |
|How To Transfer Apps Between Android Devices || ||11 ||823 ||September 17, 2020 |Spotify is an excellent streaming music service that makes you can enjoy lots of streaming content. It has tons of great music, exclusive tunes, and podcasts, all of which combine to make it a top pick for streaming music and more pop culture-related content. Spotify, available in both free and premium versions.
Thus, some services are only open to premium users like listening to Spotify music in offline mode. However, these downloaded music files are encrypted which are not viewable on other devices without Spotify. Meanwhile, you will not be able to keep those music files once you stop the subscription of the premium plan on Spotify.
Therefore, the best method is to convert Spotify music to plain audio formats like MP3 so you can hold Spotify music tracks forever and listen to them without the limitation. When it comes to converting Spotify music to plain formats like MP3, there are plenty of Spotify music converters on the market. We do recommend Tunelf Spotify Music Converter .
Tunelf Spotify Music Converter is an excellent music converter for both premium and free Spotify users which can download music from Spotify and convert Spotify music to MP3 and other audio formats. With its help, you can stream Spotify music to any devices like wearables, game consoles, smart speakers, and more even without an Internet connection.
What You Can Get from Tunelf Spotify Music Converter?
Download Spotify music for listening anywhere without premium account
Convert Spotify songs to several popular audio formats like MP3 and AAC
Support the offline playback of Spotify on any devices without limitation
Preserve Spotify music tracks with the lossless audio quality and ID3 tags
Here are the complete steps to download and convert Spotify music to MP3 .
Step 1: Launch Tunelf software on your computer and then wait for the automatic opening of Spotify. Log into your Spotify account and navigate to your library on Spotify. Find your preferred Spotify tracks and drag and drop them to the main home of Tunelf.
Step 2: Go to [Menu] > [Preference] > [Convert] and then begin to select the output audio format including MP3, AAC, FLAC, WAV, M4A, and M4B. Besides, adjust the bit rate, sample rate, and channel for getting better audio quality.
Step 3: Click on the [Convert] button to begin to download music from Spotify and Tunelf will save Spotify music tracks to the folder you specified. After the conversion, you can go to browse the converted Spotify music tracks in the converted list.Cartoon HD apk for Android to watch and stream cartoons, TV shows, films, and movies on your Android phone and tablet devices. Instantly stream and enjoy full-length movies and TV shows in high-quality with ad-free Cartoon HD mod apk.
Cartoon HD is one of the most popular cartoons, movies, and TV shows streaming app available for Android smartphones and tablet devices that allows you to directly stream and enjoy any piece of content with your friends and family. The app was developed by the GappCenter.
Due to some issues, the Cartoon HD app was removed from the Google Play Store as well as from the developer’s official website. Soon after the removal of APK, further development on the app also stopped. However, the cartoons, TV shows, and movie databases that are included in the app are still receiving constant updates. And you can download the working version of Cartoon HD APK for Android from the link given at the end of this article.
About Cartoon HD APK
Cartoon HD makes it quick and easy for you to watch your favorite movies, cartoons, and TV shows by directly streaming those media content right on your Android phone and tablet devices, without any advertisement.
And in case you are not in a mood to stream or maybe you want to watch your desired movie later while you are traveling or when you are somewhere without Internet connectivity then use the download functionality to download movies and TV shows directly on your Android phone.
How To Stream TV Shows And Movies With Cartoon HD
The Cartoon HD app is quite simple to use. First, download the APK from the link given at the end of this article and then install it on your Android phone. Launch the app and you will see a large list of movie titles along with a menu button as well as option to filter results and the ability to search for any movie.
Once you have found the movie or TV show you want to watch then tap on the name, the app will then show you brief information about it including the IMDB Rating, Genres, and Year of release. Now, simply tap on the “VIDEOS” tab and then tap on the movie name.
The app will check the source and then show you a “Select Quality” popup window. From there you can tap on the quality you want to watch the video in i.e. 1080p, 720p, 480p, or 360p. And then tap on the “Play” button.
Moreover, apart from the “Play” option, there will be a couple of other options too i.e. “Download” and “Custom”. The Download option will let you download the movie in selected quality and the Custom option will let you play the movie through your favorite player (or maybe download through your favorite downloader).
That’s how simple and easy it really is to watch full-length movies and TV shows on your Android device using Cartoon HD APK.
Features of Cartoon HD
Cartoon HD apk offers numerous features, some of the key features are:
Movies Section – Movies section is where you will find all the movies and films in HD quality, whether it is old or newly released.
TV Shows Section – This is where you will be able to find and stream all the TV Shows from a variety of TV channels.
Filtration – The built-in filtration feature will let you sort the movies/TV shows list according to name, IMDB ratings, popularity, recently updated, or year.
Genres – Genres like Action, Comedy, Documentary, Horror, Adventure, SciFi, Thriller, Romance, and many others will help you narrow down your search result for movies and TV shows.
Download Functionality – With the download functionality, you can download the movies and TV shows of your choice and then watch them later without an Internet connection.
Add To Favorite – While scrolling through the list of movies and TV shows, in case you like any title and want to watch it later then add it to your favorites.We have been receiving a lot of messages and comments asking us for the recommendation of working Pokemon GO location hacks and GPS spoofing apps, so our BestForAndroid team decided to test and try all the known location spoofing apps. We found several that are still working without any problem.
For those of you who don’t know, with every Pokemon Go update, Niantic tries their best to make modifications and changes to the PoGo API to stop spoofers and hackers from using location hacking apps.
UPDATE: If your device has received an Android security update or even if your Google Play Store Services app has been updated, then there are chances that many of these location-spoofing apps could have stopped working. As a result, the Pokemon game may show you “failed to detect location” error. If you are experiencing this problem, then please follow our in-depth tutorial available here to fix the error and continue spoofing. 😉
The good thing is that none of these location spoofing joystick apps requires you to root your Android device, which means almost any Android user can enjoy these GPS hacks.
Do you want to know more about these methods?
Please continue reading…
And yes, don’t forget to check the “Known Issues” section right after the apps to find solutions for known problems that you may experience while using these GPS joystick apps.
Best Joystick GPS Apps to Spoof in Pokemon Go
The apps we have tested at BestForAndroid HQs are featured below. We found out that all of these methods are working flawlessly on Pokemon GO for Android.
1 – Fake GPS Location – GPS JoyStick by The App Ninjas
GPS JoyStick Fake GPS location app is specially designed for those Pokémon Go users who are looking for a method to mock their location using an overlay joystick controller.
What’s unique in the GPS JoyStick app is that it provides you with ultimate location option flexibility, which means you can use three different location hack options. Each one of them can be configured according to your requirements.
Those settings are:
- Manual Location – Set mock location manually using either latitude & longitude coordinates, or using the search function,
- Current Location – Use your current location that can be detected automatically via your device’s GPS,
- Last Location – Use the previously saved location where you closed the app.
And there are more exciting features, i.e., you can select up to three different speed settings as well as an automated option that automatically walks your Pokémon GO character to the assigned location at your customized pace.
Do you know about the hidden Pokemon GO battery saver option? You can follow our guide on how to enable it to prevent unnecessary battery drainage while playing Pokemon on Android.
2 – Fake GPS Joystick & Routes Go by IncorporateApps
First things first, Fake GPS Joystick & Routes is not a free location spoofing app for Pokemon Go. It will cost you an onetime fee of $3.99.
The app works flawlessly without any problem and provides several advanced features as well as operational modes, including a joystick for smooth manual flying movement, automated movement around any specified radius, and the ability to customize speeds and update intervals.
There are a couple of features targeted explicitly towards Pokémon Go users, including expert mode and better spoofing abilities.
Apart from that, the app is capable of keeping track of your location history and allows you to add custom locations to your favorites list for quick access whenever you want.
3 – Fly GPS for Pokémon GO
Fly GPS is one of the oldest and free Pokémon Go spoof location app that has been around for quite a while now and is being used by a large number of spoofers without any issue. That is precisely what makes it one of the most trusted PoGo location spoofing app for Android.
The significant advantage of Fly GPS is that it gives you an on-screen joystick that is accessible even while you are playing Pokémon Go, using which you can:
- Easily navigate your character around the area,
- Catch all the nearby Pokémon,
- Visit PokéStop to collect items, and
- Go to the gyms around the city.
You can do all of that from the comfort of your home without ever leaving your comfortable couch/bed.
Apart from the ease of controlling your character with a joystick, there are numerous other features, including location search, option to add favorite location, recent search history. All of which makes it easy for you to take your character to any part of the world and catch rare/legendary Pokemon.
In case you don’t know, we have a complete step-by-step guide on how to install and configure Fly GPS on Android to spoof location in Pokemon GO with a joystick.
4 – TutuApp for Pokémon Go
TutuApp for Pokémon Go is known as the easiest method to spoof location on Android as the developer of the app provides a slightly modified version of Pokémon GO by incorporating a native joystick and location spoofing abilities.
But the problem is that the newer releases of the Pokémon Go are a lot harder to modify as compared to the older version due to which the TutuApp version is no longer working with Android.
We have found out that the developers over at the TutuApp have been unable to release a modified version of the latest Pokémon Go for Android. Moreover, the app being provided by TutuApp is just a mirrored APK of the original Pokémon GO app that is already available on the Google Play Store.
If you still want to try your luck with TutuApp for Pokemon, then you can download the hacking app for free from here.
Known Issues Of Pokémon GO Location Spoofing
Rubber Banding Problem Fix
The rubber-banding problem occurs when you are navigating around the spoofed location using Pokemon Go joystick app, and suddenly your character is teleported back to your real location. And the cause of this sudden teleportation is the real GPS data are overriding the fake GPS data.
The rubber banding effect, if happened several times, is known to cause soft bans. And when you are soft banned, the Pokémon you try to catch will flee. Moreover, spinning PokéStop will not give you any item.
Do you know, you can now catch ultra-rare and legendary Pokemon effortlessly without moving away from your couch? Here’s how you can do that with Pokesnipers! 😉
How To Fix Rubberbanding Problem?
There are three ways to fix Pokemon GO rubber band problem while spoofing location:
- Set your Android phone location accuracy option to the only GPS (never use high accuracy),
- Try to be in an area where there is no GPS signal (basement or room without windows should do the trick),
- Wrap the backside of your phone in 2 to 4 layers of tin foil to block GPS signals from reaching your phone.
How To Fix Soft Ban?
In case your account is soft banned because of the rubberband effect, there are two possible ways to remove the soft ban:
One is to wait for 2 to 6 hours, and the other one is to follow the steps below:
- Open the Poké Stop,
- Spin the circle,
- Close the Poké Stop.
Rinse and repeat those three steps for about 40 times or until the PokeStop starts giving you items. That should help you remove the ban from your Pokémon Go account fast within 5 minutes.
What are your thoughts about the mentioned location spoofing apps? Did any GPS joystick hack help you to spoof your location? Or maybe you already know about an app that works for you. Let us know in the comments below. 🙂
thanks for this helpful post for me and all tutuapp user’s. this is a best platform for all who want tutuapp helper apk file.
regard.
Glad it helped you 🙂
None work after latest Android update 🙁
Yeah. Niantic always try to stop these things, but don’t worry next update of Fly GPS will solve this.
how do you know?
Unfortunately, the current version of Fly GPS and GPS JoyStick no longer works after the latest Android update. But we have found an app that works even after the Android update. The latest working method is available here: https://bestforandroid.com/location-gps-signal-error-pokemon-go/
If somethings works don’t post it online the developer gonna see and stop all the hack just help them by not posting so developer will not know and and you can hack forever dumb people alway posting and making the hack go away sad
Hey @disqus_n7jup8hOKu:disqus! We have found a solution that works even after the latest Android update 😀
Please check this tutorial: https://bestforandroid.com/location-gps-signal-error-pokemon-go/
How do I get this to work on a android tablet
It should Work on Android Tablet. Have you tried using it?
Do any of these still work?
I want to use it for android phone newest updates
You will need to root your phone because “mock locations” option no longer works.
Yes, location spoofing and GPS hacks are still working. You can use Fly GPS, Fake GPS GO, GPS JoyStick. Apart from the TutuApp, all of them works. But you must need to move the GPS spoofing app to the Android system directory to be able to fake your location in Pokemon GO, and that requires you to first root your device.
Non of them worked
Fly Gps is working for many people. What’s the problem you are facing?
Can’t detect the location with Fly GPS . the built-in security of the game is working against location hacks.
flygps is not working with my android device, is the latest version 5.0.9? shows me “failed to detect location. (12)” after opening the game on move location mode
I am rooted with Fake GPS Route already in my system files. But can’t play because I am rooted. So I have to unroot my device and keep the Fake GPS route in the systems folder to play?
remove your root and install magisk hide. its easy install apk, then the other file install it via twrp, and its rooted again, then go to the app left screen where it says hide selecet pokemon go, there you can play it on root device
GPS aps in method 3 need to activate mock location , I still have the error code in pokemon go
Hi,
Nice article with best knowledge, keep it up.Recently, I got a used Asus 6 (ZS630KL) smartphone from my friend. It is running on Android 9.0 (Pie), ZenUI 6, and no modifications or configurations. Everything is okay but the device makes a rattling sound when the camera makes on each rotation. This issue doesn’t make any change to camera functionality.but annoying. how can I fix this?Disclaimer: 8 ball pool is owned and copyright protected by Miniclip. By posting apk here for gamers we do not mean to infringe any copyright law.
Are you looking to have infinite guideline hack on 8 Ball Pool Android to help you win every game and earn a lot of coins? Here we have a working 8 Ball Pool mod apk latest version with guideline hack that does not require root and works on every Android phone & tablet devices. 😀
Without any doubt, 8 Ball Pool game by Miniclip is being played by a wide range of people from all around the world and has gained a lot of traction after the implementation of Facebook Connect, which allows you to play 1-vs-1 matches with your friends.
Recently, the developers have introduced 9 Ball Game mode with the option to enable/disable guidelines as well as the ability to call pockets on all shots to make the game more challenging.
Moreover, some playing areas/cities like Rome, Cairo, and Shanghai are introduced with new rules. The game even allows you to challenge your friends on 9 Ball and no guideline matches to test and compare their skills with yours.
About 8 Ball Pool Mod APK
Designed by Miniclip, 8 Ball Pool is one of the most popular and widely played online pool game for Android, computer, and on the web. It supports 1-on-1 matches as well as tournaments with up to 8 players, so you can play with your friends regardless of the device and locality.
You can even play quick pool game with thousands of other players for free while the multiplayer tournaments will help you with billiards crown. Winning the game will increase your level as well as earn pool coins so that you can play in higher-level match locations.
The gameplay is simple. You will select the table you want to play the game on while keeping your Pool Coins at stake. Winning the match will earn you all those coins. The more matches you win, the greater your rankings and coins will be.
You can then use those coins to either purchase new items from the Pool Shop or enter higher ranked matches with greater stakes, where you play against some of the best and experienced players.
With the ability to login to the game using Miniclip and Facebook account, you will be able to challenge your friends and show off your gaming skills.
Features of 8 Ball Pool Mod
Do you want to know about the features of original and modded 8 Ball Pool for Android? We have mentioned them below:
Unlimited Guidelines – Gives you unlimited stick guidelines so that you can make sure every shot go to the right pocket and quickly win all the games as well as tournaments.
No root access required – This version of mod does not require you to have rooted Android phone/tablet device.
Connect to Facebook – Even though it is a modded version, but you will still be able to log in and connect to your existing account and sync 8 Ball Pool game progress.
Login with Miniclip Account – You are allowed to log in to your Miniclip account and continue playing from where you left in the original game.
Apart from the above-mentioned features, following are some of the hacks and mods that are no longer possible with 8 Ball Pool:
Unlimited money,
Unlimited cash,
Unlimited coins,
Show guidelines in all the rooms,
Ability to open/unlock all tables and cities.
These hacks were available in the mega mod and were only possible during the initial phase of the 8 Ball Pool game, but now as the developers have shifted all these in-game items to their own server, we are not able to hack these aspects of the game anymore.
8 Ball Pool Mod Demo Video/Screenshot
To see the 8 Ball Pool mod in action, we have embedded an animated version so that you can see how the gameplay looks like on Android phones:
How To Install 8 Ball Pool Mod APK
Follow these simple steps to properly install 8 Ball Pool mod apk on your Android phone and tablet:
If you have the original 8 Ball Pool already installed on your phone then first you must need to uninstall it.
Download modded apk version of 8 Ball Pool from the link given below.
On your Android phone, you need to enable the option that allows installation of apps from unknown sources.
Install the apk and enjoy unlimited guideline mod.
It is important to keep in mind that the guideline hack/mod may get your account banned. We will suggest you create a temporary/fake Miniclip account using the instructions available here about temporary emails so that you can enjoy the game to the fullest.
The 8 ball pool is always asking for update but there is no updates. What can I do? Please solve itHey, I’m new to Samsung as I’ve just switched to it, I love this phone but there’s one thing thats been bothering me alot and thats the Bixby Button. I’ve found myself pressing it accidently while trying to increase or decrease the volume and I would like to disable the bixby button. I couldn’t find any solution related to this that would help me and so I ended up here on this forum and I’m looking forward to getting a solution. It would be highly appreciated.Do you want to download your favorite videos on your Android phone or tablet but you are not sure how? Look no further as here I have tried and tested the best video downloader apps for Android to download videos.
It has been seen that mostly people are looking for a way to download videos on their Android phones or tablets but they don’t know about the perfect app that will help them in downloading videos from their favorite video sharing website.
The reason for downloading video could be many. However, according to my observations, some of the most common reasons I have come across is:
You want to watch the video again later when you are offline? Or, you want to send a video to your friends or relatives? Or maybe your Internet connection speed is too slow to stream the video and you want to download it first so you can enjoy it later?
Whatever your motive to download the video is, here I am sharing with you some of the best video downloader apps for Android that, according to my experience, make your videos downloading task easier and help you in downloading videos from any video sharing website.
#01 – TubeMate
Out of all the apps that are listed here, I can assure you that TubeMate is the best video downloader app for Android as I have been personally using it for the past two years, and the app never fails to amaze me!
TubeMate will allow you to download videos from almost any website where a video content is embedded, without showing you any sign of hiccup.
With TubeMate, you can even download YouTube videos without any issue and I believe that this is the same reason why the app is no longer available on the Google Play Store anymore. However, you can freely download it from their official website I have given below and enjoy all the outstanding features. 😉
The developers behind this app make sure that it is fully compatible with every Android phone as well as tablet. And frequent updates for the app is released in order to ensure that you don’t face any error or issue while using TubeMate or downloading videos.
Download TubeMate
#02 – Downloader & Private Browser
Downloader & Private Browser have a similar capabilities as TubeMate but does not allow you to download from YouTube due to some strict legal restrictions imposed by the video sharing website.
Apart from that, it has a built-in browser using which you can go to any video based website and easily grab a downloadable link to the file. It provides some good download speeds, and supports pause and resume functionality too.
If your phone or tablet have external SD card support then you can use the settings page to select the primary location for the storage of your downloaded video files to keep the burden off from your limited internal storage.
There is one key point that you should note about this app. Once your download has been completed, it is required that you export that video file to your phone to be able to either see it in the Gallery or any other video player app.
To export your downloaded video files, you need to go to the “Files” section, tap on the “Videos” folder, then tap and hold the downloaded video file, and then tap on the “Export” button. You should now be able to see your files in the Gallery. 🙂
#03 – Fastest Video Downloader
Fastest Video Downloader is a trustworthy and reliable video downloading app for Android. To make your downloading tasks easier, the app comes bundles with a browser, video file explorer, and download manager.
You can use the built-in web browser to search for the videos and websites. Once the video has been found, the video downloader will automatically detect the file and ask if you want to download it.
The download manager is fully capable of pausing and resuming files that are being downloaded as well as the capability to handle lost connections, depending on the website you are trying to downloading the video from.
And because the download manager supports multiple concurrent connections to the file server, which ensures that you get the maximum downloading speed when you are downloading videos using this app.
The integrated video files explorer provides you with the ability to gain complete control over the video files you have on your Android device, such as rename, delete, or move your video files to another directory.
#04 – Download Video: Downloader
Download Video: Downloader is a popular video downloading app designed for Android devices that has become personal favourite for most of the users due to its remarkable video downloading capabilities.
Similar to any other video downloading app, this one also includes a simple browser so that it can easily grab a download link for the video being played.
The notable feature of the app is that it supports MP3 music downloading too.
So for example, you have listened to some great music video and want to download it in the MP3 format. You will need to search for the MP3 format and it might be difficult to do so right from your Android device. However, this app will make your whole task easier as it has a capability to directly download the same video in the MP3 format. 😉
#05 – Tube Video Downloader
Have you already tried the previous app on the list? If yes, then you will find out that this Tube Video Downloader have an identical user interface. However, it will provide you a much better video downloading section and have a much greater compatibility with video sharing websites.
Apart from that, the app can also download your videos in both MP4 video format as well as MP3 music format, and that too in an enhanced and enriched audio and video quality.
If you are one of those users who prefer to use single app to watch and download videos and music then this app should be your best bet.
#06 – Tube Video Downloader
No. This is not a similar app as before. Even though the names are same but both are developed by completely different developers. To me, it seems like the developers behind this Tube Video Downloader has managed to slightly improve the interface to make it more user friendly.
And not only has the interface been improved, the implementation of pausing and resuming functionality into the download manager makes it more useful if you have an unstable Internet connectivity. This feature is exactly what was missing in the previous app.
Other than polishing the interface and adding those two praiseworthy functionalities, the developer has managed to make sure that the videos are easily downloadable from the major video sharing sites.
#07 – Download Video App for Android
Previously known as MP4 Video Downloader, it is a popular video downloading app for Android that let you download MP4 format videos effortlessly. For those of you who are not aware, a while ago the developer has decided to change the name to Download Video App for Android.
To download videos you have two options, you can either enter the video URL manually or browse the video websites use its central web browser system which will allow the download manager to grab the video file right from the website and begin the downloading process.
If you have any favourite video sharing website from where you frequently download videos then you can add that website to the favourites using a bookmark option right from the integrated web browser so that you can access that website within seconds.
#08 – AVD (Android Video Downloader)
AVD Download Video (Android Video Downloader) app that was once known as Video Catcher is popular app among the Android users who frequently download videos that are shared on the Internet.
Similar to any other popular app, you will find a browser in the AVD app too! This will help you in finding your favourite videos without any hassle of using other web browser to copy the URL and then paste on the app. AVD includes everything in one place so that you can save your time and easily find your favourite videos on the Internet.
Once you have found the video you want to download, simply tap on the video downloader button and your download will begin instantly. You will be able to monitor the download progress of your videos right from the dropdown notification panel.
#09 – FVD (Free Video Downloader)
FVD also known as Free Video Downloader is a minimalist video downloading app that have an uncluttered and well organized UI to make the video downloading tasks easier, even for the novice users. The app is being actively used by more than 10 million Android users to download their favourite videos from the Internet.
The developers has specifically designed this app in such a way that you don’t need to copy and paste the URL of the video you want to download.
They have eliminated this procedure and made the whole video downloading task easier by using a native web browser that automatically detects the video being played and then prompts you to download the file in your desired resolution.
#10 – SnapTube
Remember that TubeMate app I mentioned in the first position of this list? SnapTube is similar to that but provides a lot of customizations and large number of additional features that you might not find in any other video downloading app.
Trusted by millions of users around the world, and the easy to use UI, support for almost all of the major video and audio sharing social media websites, fast download mode, and an inbuilt download manager is what makes SnapTube one of the best video downloader apps for Android.
You can download videos in various resolutions including 144p, 240p, 360p, 480, 720p HD, 1080p HD and 4k format too. Moreover, you can also extract the audio from the already downloaded video file and make your own MP3 or M4A music file.
The inbuilt music and video player give you a quick access to all the audio and video files you have on your Android device, and you can use the same player to watch or listen to the media files you have downloaded with SnapTube.
Since SnapTube supports downloading videos from YouTube, which is the reason why it has been removed from the Google Play Store due to the strict YouTube terms and policies against all the video downloading apps.
However, SnapTube is still available for download for free from their official website link given below. And for those of you who are concerned about the integrity of SnapTube app, they are verified by major security and antimalware service providers including McAfee and CM Security. 😀
Download SnapTube
Which One Is Your Personal Favourite?
I have listed the 10 best video downloader apps for Android, and for me, TubeMate is my personal favourite because it is a lightweight app, have a fast download mode, and supports most of the video sharing websites.
Which one is your personal favourite? Do let me know in the comments section below. 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Androidsteve
Hi, I am Android Fan boy.TubeMate for Android to download videos from video streaming websites directly on your Android device. Many sites do not officially allow its users to download videos, so TubeMate works as a one-click solution. It can download videos from a wide range of sites, including DailyMotion, Vimeo, YouKu, LeTV, and many more.
TubeMate apk makes the life of Android phone users easy by allowing them to download videos from any video streaming site on the Internet. The downloaded videos can be watched anywhere anytime in the offline mode. However, it is not the only feature of TubeMate. It is a power-packed app loaded with features like simultaneous downloading, MP3 format conversion, different video resolution options, playlists, and much more. All these features are going to be discussed in detail in this article.
About TubeMate APK
There are numerous downloaders available in the market. However, TubeMate Downloader is considered to be the most convenient and easy-to-use. It provides a one-click option to download videos from the Internet. Another reason for being a user-friendly interface is that the home screen is similar to the official Y.o.u.T.ub.e app. The video search on the app is also similar. Such familiarity makes it easy for users to use the app.
The user can search for the video and watch it directly on TubeMate too. As the user views the video, a green download option will appear on the screen. The user can then click on the button to download the video.
All of the above functionality explained is a very simple way. That is why the users prefer to use this app, as they already feel familiar with the interface.
Another factor of using TubeMate is that it not only allows the user to download from many major sites but also supports video downloading from various other websites like:
- Daily motion
- Vimeo
- LeTV
- YouKu
- MetaCafe
- Naver
The home screen of TubeMate can act as the home screen of all of the multimedia apps mentioned above.
Features of TubeMate Downloader for Android
Highlighted below are the key features of TubeMate for Android apk:
- It is a state-of-the-art platform to download videos and MP3 formats from major video sites.
- The user can download videos from various multimedia platforms like Vimeo and DailyMotion.
- Its easy for the users to browse through the videos, watch them, and then download on the Android phone.
- The video can be downloaded at a faster speed with multiple connections options.
- The video can be downloaded in the background while the user is browsing for other videos.
- It allows users to download multiple videos at the same time.
- The video can be paused during the downloading process. The resume feature will pick up the downloading from where it was left off.
- The user can save video and audio files in different playlists and folders.
- The user can select different resolutions for the video to be downloaded.
User Interface and User Experience of TubeMate APK
Once the app is installed on the Android device, the user is directed to the main home screen without any sign-up process.
Moreover, the user can also switch between other multimedia apps by clicking the button available on the top left side. This option will lead the user to other apps where the user can click on other options to change the home screen.
For example, if the user clicks on Vimeo, then the home screen will become the main screen of the Vimeo video player. There is also an in-built search bar there where the user can type in the link to play any video.
When the user opens the TubeMate apk for the first time after installing on the Android phone, there are instructions displayed on the main screen. Instructions include the option to swipe the screen from right to left to see the download history and list. There are two more buttons on the top right corner. One is the search bar, where the user can paste the link of the video. The three dots present on the extreme right lead to the options.
After reading all the instructions, the user can now access the home screen. There is a playlist button at the top of the home screen using which the user can create multiple playlists of different genres on the TubeMate Downloader apk. These playlists can be of two categories, i.e., video playlist or an audio playlist.
The three dots on the top right corner lead the user to different options including:
- URL
- Back
- Forward
- Player
- Playlist
- Download list
- Preferences
- Help
- Exit
The user can clear the cache after watching videos on the app to save the memory space on their device. The user has got two options to share the videos with friends. The playlist plays the music stored in the playlist. The user can use the back or forward button to switch among different songs. The player is displayed on the bottom of the screen. That allows the user to listen to music while browsing for other videos.
TubeMate Downloader has made the playlist management extremely easy for its users. The user can modify the order of the items available in the playlist. The user can simply press the item available in the playlist and drag it upwards or downwards in the lists. The user can also delete any item from the list. There is a web page icon on the right of all the items available in the playlist. If the user clicks on the item, it can lead the user to the web page of that very item.
The preferences options available in TubeMate apk are very important for the user. One can enable the “Fast Download Mode” where different internet connections can be used for a single download. It allows the app to download videos at a faster speed.
The user can set the maximum speed limit of downloading. For instance, the app comes with a default speed limit of 20 Mbps. There is a possibility that the Android device may become slow due to downloading done by TubeMate. If the performance of the phone gets slow, then the user is advised to lower the speed limit.
One of the advantages of this app is that it allows simultaneous downloads. It means the user can download more than one video at a time. However, the maximum number of simultaneous downloads is set to two by default. As the total number of simultaneous downloads increases, the Android device may become slower.
The user can check the option to download the video with a Wi-Fi connection only to save the network data. Some of the videos on major video sites have got captions and subtitles with them. The user can choose to download the subtitles. There is an option to allow the automatic machine-translated captions with the downloaded videos. It is up to the user to enable or disable this option.
The user can choose to download a high-resolution video of 1080p and use a media converter to convert it into an audio file. There is an encoder option available for MP3 files. The faster MP3 encoder can be turned off by the user if the quality of the MP3 file is not good. If the sound quality of the MP3 file is good, then the faster MP3 encoder option can be switched on.
There are multiple storage paths for different types of downloads. All these paths are mentioned in the Storage option. There is an in-built player too. The user can choose to play the playlist on that player or any other player available on the Android device. There is an option of an internal player that is checked by default. However, users can un-check this option and choose to play the audio and video playlist on other players present on the Android phone.
The user can select the language of the TubeMate APK. The language is set to UK English by default. However, the app has been translated into different languages by the translation contributors.
The user can check the option of sound notification whenever downloading is finished. The app has an advanced feature of background downloading. So, the user can enable an audio notification for the completed downloads.
The user can select the units of downloading and change them from kilobits per second (kbps) to kilobytes per second (kBps). The user can choose to choose an offline home screen instead of the major video site’s home screen whenever the app is launched.
How to Download Videos from TubeMate on Android
It is very easy to download any video on the TubeMate Downloader apk. The user can select any video on the major video sites player available on the home screen. Once the user plays the video, a green download option will appear on the top of the video. The user can click on the download button to start the downloading process.
The next step is to choose the resolution of the video. There are different options available on the screen:
- 1920×1080 (MP4) – This option is recommended for high-end Android phones only
- 1280×720 (MP4)
- 854×480 (MP4)
- 640×360 (MP4)
- 320×180 (MP4)
- 256×144 (MP4)
- 176×144 (3GP)
- Audio (M4A/ACC, 128k)
- Audio (MP3, 128k)
- 1280×720 (WEBM)
The user can select from any of the above options and then click the download button again. The downloading will start in the background, and a green button will appear on the notification bar of the phone. The overall progress of the downloading can be checked easily on the phone.
After the downloading is finished, the video can be viewed on the download list. There are numerous options available to play the downloaded video, which includes:
- It can be played either as video or audio
- The downloaded video can be added to the playlist
- It can be viewed on the website
- The user can extract MP3 format
- It can be moved to any other location on the phone or to SD card
- The downloaded video can be renamed
TubeMate app comes with a resume option. This option can be used to resume the downloading process if it is interrupted due to some internet connectivity.
How to Download MP3 Music using TubeMate for Android
There are two ways to download MP3 files from TubeMate apk.
When the user clicks the options available on the right side of the video, then different format options are presented before the downloading. The user can select the Audio format and then click the download button. The audio will be saved in the Audio folder. There is another way to convert the already downloaded video into an audio format. As mentioned earlier, there are different options available with the downloaded video. One of the options is to extract the MP3 format from the video. In this way, an MP3 file will be created in the Audio folder.TVMC apk for Android download now to enjoy tons of movies, TV shows, and stream content directly on your Android mobile, tablet or TV box without wasting too much time on setting up everything first. TV Media Center apk is the best shortcut app that you can download and install on your device and start streaming movies and shows within minutes.
TVMC is a Kodi/XBMC build, which means it works and performs similarly. The major benefit of having TVMC (TV Media Center) app installed on your Android device is that it does not require any initial setup because it comes preinstalled with over thirty add-ons as well as some notable performance upgrades.
One of the most notable aspects of TVMC is that it is a newbie-friendly build of the original Kodi app, which means it is a lot easier and simpler to install and gain quick access to all the movies, TV shows, and your favorite streaming content within a few minutes.
The greatest benefit of this app is that it comes with numerous useful add-ons, which provides you with direct access to a lifetime of content that is already available on the Internet.
About TVMC APK
TVMC is an unofficial custom build of Kodi based on version 14.2. It was created by the TV Addons Team specifically for newbies and those who are looking for a quick way to gain access to streamable content without spending a lot of time on research, customizing the media player, and installing add-ons.
The reason why TVMC gained so much popularity is due to the fact that majority of people who are looking for a way to watch favorite movies and TV shows on the Internet through live streaming sites but those websites are filled with tons of advertisements and unwanted popups, which makes it hard to stream content.
The app comes pre-installed and preconfigured with some of the most popular third-party TV add-ons that provide tons of streaming content sources, live TV channels, live sports, music, movies, and TV shows. The add-ons that come preinstalled with the app include FilmOn Simple, iTV, IceFilms, Live Tube, Newsy, USTVnow Plus, USTVcatchup, International Content, Sports.
Moreover, you won’t need to hunt for repositories to find and look for add-ons as the app already has various different streaming, movies, and TV shows related add-ons.
Though if you are looking for additional add-ons or maybe you have some favorites then you can easily download and install new add-ons on TVMC by adding new repositories and sources, similar to how you usually do on the Kodi.
Features of TVMC TV Media Center
The TVMC TV Media Center APK not only allows you to stream online movies, TV shows, channels, and other streamable media but it also lets you browse and play all types of media content stored on your device including pictures, movies, music, and other apps.
The features of TVMC are highlighted below:
Have many preinstalled add-ons, repositories, and sources for movies, TV shows, and live channels,
Comes preconfigured with visual customizations,
Does not require any manual configuration after installation and gives direct access to online streaming content,
Zero advertisements as TVMC provides you with a direct link to stream live TV channels and your choice of favorite media in the Video-On-Demand styled interface.
A little Background Information about TVMC
Before moving forward, we feel it is important to mention here that TVMC was being managed and updated by developers over at TVAddons.ag but since after the termination of their website and services due to piracy issues the app is no longer being maintained. So it is quite possible that you will experience unexpected shutdowns and force closures while using the app due to lack of compatibility with dependencies.
We understand that there are certain old Android devices that might not be able to run the latest version of Kodi this is why we have included the original TVMC apk and its relevant details in this article. And regarding the workability, we have tested on our Android device and it works well. Remember that some add-ons are updated for the latest Kodi release and as a result, they are no longer compatible with this app.
Also, right after the initial release of TVMC APK, it was released on the official Google Play Store too for a little price of $0.99. But soon it was removed by Google due to their strict terms of service, which do not allow any app that promotes piracy.
Anyways, if you have newer Android device with better hardware and software compatibility then we will recommend you to go for the official Kodi build and manually set it up according to your requirements and install your favorite third-party add-ons because then you will be able to experience smoother and error-free live TV channels and movie streaming.
TVMC TV Media Center Demo Screenshots
Here are the demo screenshots for TVMC app for Android:Shayan_2002
$ Tech Enthusiast
$ Camera Enthusiast
$ love Music
$ love Photography
$ Professional Macro Photographer
$ Tech EnthusiastKodi Android
|Topic||Replies||Views||Activity|
|About the Kodi Android category||0||555||September 25, 2017|
|How to watch/stream live TV channels on Kodi? [Guide]||15||8836||June 28, 2020|
|How to install kodi on android tablets?||8||878||June 24, 2018|
|How to Watch Movies on Kodi for Free On Android||7||788||June 24, 2018|
|How to Watch Movies On Kodi?||10||944||May 31, 2018|
|Failed to install dependency error in Kodi. Dependency could not be satisfied||2||21160||May 15, 2018|Internet connectivity for streaming or downloading movies, TV shows, and media content.
com.tdo.showbox
You can download APK file from the link below.
Are you looking for movie streaming apps or want to download movies and TV shows on your Android phone/tablet? You have come to the right place as ShowBox apk provides you with over hundreds and thousands of free HD movies and TV shows right on your Android device.
About ShowBox APK
ShowBox app allows you to watch movies and stream TV shows directly on your Android phone for free, without any subscription charges. The developers behind this app make sure that the content library is updated every week to include all the latest movies and newly released TV shows so that you can kill your boredom and keep yourself entertained for as long as you want without any interruption.
Moreover, in case you have a slow Internet connection speed and unable to stream movies then Show Box app even allows you to download them so that you can then enjoy those high-definition movies and TV shows whenever you want, regardless of the Internet connection. For example, while you are offline, traveling, or during a flight.
Finding your favorite films and TV shows on ShowBox app is a lot easier than you think, thanks to the built-in filters and search functionality. Using this you can quickly sort the whole list of content by genre, date added, popularity, star rating, or IMDB rating.
Believe it or not, all the latest TV shows and movies are quickly updated in the Show Box database so that you can instantly begin watching your favorites anytime you want. Also, if you are the one who wants to watch all the latest movies when they are released but don’t find much time to go to the cinema due to your busy schedule, then you should download this app and start watching movies on your terms.
You can download the ShowBox apk latest version for Android from the download link given in this article.
Features of ShowBox App for Android
Here are some of the most prominent features of the ShowBox apk for Android:
Plenty of genres to choose from – You can quickly sort and find your desired movie by filtering your results by 24 different genres including comedy, action, sci-fi, horror, thriller, adventure, documentary, animation, drama, romance.
Option to create your personalized list – With the user-friendly interface, you can create your customized list of favorite movies and TV shows while making it simple to add any content to watch list, movie list, or any other custom list.
Ability to download and watch offline – Even though the app is designed to stream TV shows and movies online, but in case your Internet connection is slow then you can quickly download those content with the help of built-in download functionality and enjoy content offline.
High-quality movies and TV shows – ShowBox apk allow you to select the quality and resolution in which you want to watch those movies and TV shows including 360p, 480p, 720p, and 1080p. You can choose the appropriate quality depending on your Internet connection speed.
Automatic downloading of TV shows – There’s even a feature within the Show Box app that once configured will automatically download the latest episodes of your favorite TV shows whenever they are released so you can watch them later without the Internet.
Always up-to-date app – The developers behind ShowBox app make sure that the app is free from any known bugs and contains the latest collection of TV shows and movies so you will receive automatic push updates for all the most recent
Free for life – The movie streaming app is free for life and allows you to stream unlimited TV shows and movies without any charges whatsoever. Moreover, the app is free from advertisements, and there’s no in-app purchases section, which means no hidden costs.
How to download and install ShowBox on Android?
Here is a complete step-by-step guide to help you install ShowBox on your Android device:
Download ShowBox apk from the link given in this article.
Using either the built-in file manager or any file explorer of your choice, extract/unzip the file.
Now tap on the extracted file, i.e., com.tdo.showbox.apk to begin the installation.
You may see a warning message that says, “For your security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source.” Tap on the Settings button.
A new menu will open with an option that says, Allow from this source. Tap on the toggle switch right next to it to enable the installation.
Now go back to the installation screen. You will see a list of all the permissions required by the app to run correctly. Tap on the Install button.
You will see an “Installing…” window along with a progress bar. It should not take more than a minute or two to complete the installation.
Once installed successfully, you will see the App installed screen.
Tap on the Open button to launch the ShowBox app.
Now you can enjoy streaming movies and TV shows right on your Android device.
How to update ShowBox to the latest version on Android?
This section will guide you about the recommended method to download and update Show Box to the latest version from within the app:
Whenever the new release or ShowBox latest version is available, the app will show you a notification when you open the app. The message will say, “Available a new version! Please update your program from our server!”
First, make sure your device is connected to a reliable Internet connection and then tap on the Update button to begin downloading the new version from the official ShowBox download servers. The speed of this process depends on your Internet connection speed.
Once downloaded, you may see an installation blocked warning message that says, “For your security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source.” You need to tap on the Settings button to allow installation.
A new menu will open with an option that says, Allow from this source. Tap on the toggle switch to allow the installation, as shown in the screenshot below.
Now go back to the installation screen and tap on the Install button.
You will see a window with an installation progress bar. It should not take more than a minute or two to complete the installation.
The App installed screen will appear once the update is installed successfully.
Tap on the Open button to launch the ShowBox app.
Now you will continue to receive all the new content including the latest movies, films, and TV shows.
With the latest version of ShowBox apk installed on your Android device, you will now have access to the database of thousands of movies, whether it’s most recent or old.
Moreover, if you are a fan of any specific TV series, you can watch every single episode. And the best thing is the database is updated with the new TV show episode as soon as it gets telecasted on TV.
Can you please🙏🙏 bring back Netflix original la niña on showbox
Can you please 🙏🙏 bring back Netflix original la niña on showbox please
Hi, iinstalled the file but when i open it it just keeps displaying connection error, even though I’m connected.
Try using a VPN app.The Clash Royale hack apk for Android devices with unlimited gems, gold, coins, elixir, and maximum level is available for download for free in this article below. Continue reading to find out what else you can hack in the game using this mod apk…
About Clash Royale Hack APK
Clash Royale is a strategy game developed by one of the most popular developer Supercell, who also developed one of the most played mobile game i.e. Clash of Clans. Clash Royale brings you a completely fresh real-time multiplayer game featuring the Royales as well as other favorite CoC characters including Barbarian Kings, Archers, Giants, and Wall Breakers.
Similar to the Clash of Clans, the Clash Royale also has several in-game currencies that can be earned/purchased and then used to build stronger troops, upgrade your cards, and build an ultimate Battle Deck to defeat your enemies. Those in-game currencies are gems, elixir, coins, and gold.
All those currencies are usually hard and time-consuming to earn, which is why players are in search for a quick and simple Clash Royale hacks that can help them get unlimited coins, elixir, gold, and gems in an attempt to make the gameplay easier.
Here we have included a Clash Royale mod apk with unlimited resources along with maximum level so you will have all the cards and crowns unlocked right from the very beginning of the game.
All the battles have time limitation of three minutes. During the battle, you and your opponent will have three towers i.e. two side towers and one central tower. To win the battle, your goal is to destroy your opponent’s central tower. And you need to defend your own towers too.
You can learn more about the ins and outs of Supercell’s Clash Royale Android game here. As from this point forward, we will be discussing further the Clash Royale mod apk and how the hack works in providing you with unlimited in-game resources like gold, diamond, elixir, coins, and gold.
Features of Clash Royale Hack APK
The Clash Royale hack apk offers you numerous mod features to help you win battles against rivals using your powerful Clash troops.
- Unlimited Gems – With unlimited gems you can help cut down time for the upgrades, purchase some premium in-game items, and even exchange gems for Crown chests.
- Unlimited Gold and Coins – Get unlimited Clash Royale gold and coins to form the best clan and build your own super battle community.
- Maximum Level – You will get highest experience points so that you will remain at the maximum level of Clash Royale.
You can use these unlimited gems and unlimited gold to quickly build your very own powerful clan that can earn the highest number of trophies, earn chests to collect new epic cards and unlock rewards, and you can even upgrade any of your existing cards.
With the dominant collection of cards, you can easily destroy your opponent’s towers and win crowns to ultimately earn crown chests. You will also get a chance to upgrade your card collection and take your favorite Clash troops, defenses, and spells to the battle or attempt a private duel with your friends and Clanmates.Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
I bought a Samsung smart TV for my bedroom a few weeks ago and although it has Netflix I was wondering how one can install Play Store and any other third-party apps in the smart TV if there is no Google Play Store installed/found in the TV.2. Any information is published in its original format, without guarantees of relevance, completeness, accuracy or correctness, and without other express or implied warranties. Access to the web resource, as well as the use of its content, is at its sole discretion and risk.
3. The administrative team of the portal (web resource directors, officials, main founders, employees, administrators, representatives of the moderating team and other representatives) makes every effort to provide users with correct and relevant information, while the likelihood of inaccuracies does exist.
4. The BestForAndroid.Com portal is a project with fully accessible content for all participants. The site architecture allows everyone who has access to the Internet to multiply its content, therefore the site and its Content are provided without restrictions, on an “as is” basis, without making any agreements between the participants of this site, the Administration, the owners of servers on which The site is based, or by anyone else, in any way associated with this or indirect sites that may be the reason for filing any complaints.
5. Any software is saved by BestForAndroid.Com users at their own risk. A site visitor, downloading applications from the BestForAndroid.Com web resource, agrees that installation and full use of applications may require payment of a certain amount. Users are informed that the files can be placed by other users as well, whose actions are moderated by the BestForAndroid.Com administration team.
6. The administrative structure does not provide any kind of promise or guarantee regarding the site and its content, including, without limitation, in terms of relevance, correctness, accessibility, accuracy, completeness or consistency with any specific goals of the website and content, in relation to that when browsing the portal there are no problems, it will be safe and uninterrupted, that the Administrators Group will fix the named malfunctions, or that there are no Trojan programs and viruses on the site, and also that Napo nenie and the website does not violate rights of third parties are not specified.
7. Some links on the BestForAndroid.Com website lead to third-party resources. These links are located on this Internet project for easy orientation and their presence does not mean that the Administrative Group of this portal encourages or generally assesses the content of third-party web resources. In addition, the Administration of the specified website is not responsible for the content of foreign resources and their availability. Written refers to any links, ad units and other data specified on the web resource submitted from other portals available on BestForAndroid.Com
8. The administration does not include among the basic powers such operations as controlling the legality or illegality of the information posted and sent, including the information that visitors transmit to one alone, either as separate materials or by sending links. The group of administrators does not determine the copyright, the legality of receiving and forwarding, as well as the use of materials transferred between the participants.
9. The materials transmitted by one user to another are the subject of file exchange for the specified two users. The administration can not be held responsible for the content of this information, as well as for its belonging to any author or group of authors. This information may nevertheless be at the disposal of BestForAndroid.Com administrators, since any information transmitted on this resource automatically becomes the property of the founders of BestForAndroid.Com, unless otherwise indicated.
10. The portal administration team takes reasonable steps to ensure the completeness, legality and relevance of the content, but the Administration is not responsible for conscious and accidental actions of third parties or organizations, such as those produced using materials located on the Internet project or found through a resource like provided by the Administration and by third parties.
11. The administrative structure of the Internet project, in accordance with current legislation, disclaims any promises, guarantees and assurances that may be either given or taken into account, and the Management Group is not responsible for the content of the Internet project; participants and the site itself.
12. For advertising materials that are posted on the portal, only the advertiser is responsible. The web resource also warns that the possibility of acquiring or using the offered services and goods at a price or on the terms specified in the ad units is not guaranteed. The visitor agrees that the resource is not responsible for the likely consequences (including any damage) that have arisen as a result of any relationship with advertisers. Such damage includes such cases: personal injury, computer malfunction, computer addiction, damage to computing mechanisms and home networks, legal problems, and so on.
13. The Internet project provides the ability for users to send comments, questions, suggestions, complaints and other notifications to enter this information into the relevant sections of the portal that will be viewed by other participants. This web resource is not responsible for the information transmitted.
14. The party publishing the materials is obliged to verify the ownership of the copyright and the legality of the laid out articles or applications.
15. The BestForAndroid.Com admin team is not responsible for the content of the materials until they are edited by the moderators.
16. The management group reserves the authority to supplement and reduce these requirements without notifying the participants. Also, the Management Group is not responsible for the modification, adjustment, editing, deletion of any data published by the participants on the portal or other related sites.
17. The administrative group has the authority to block access to the web resource to any Visitor, or group of participants without warning and explanation.
18. The administration has the right to edit or delete links to text information, executable files, audio materials, graphic files and other data that are published by the Participants on the web resource, without warning or explanation of claims.
19. The name, trademark of the organization, product, as well as the copyright to the design, copyright material and certain indirect rights referred to, used or cited on the presented portal, belong to the full and present owners. Except the owner of the rights, no one has the right to manage the rights to use copyright data, unless otherwise indicated on the resource. Users are responsible for the theft of copyright material.
20. Reading, distributing, or modifying information that is published on this resource may violate the laws of the country in which this project is used.
21. The Visitor agrees that conflicts and frictions will be resolved according to current regulatory acts of the legislation of the Russian Federation.
22. The visitor agrees with the fact that the normative acts and laws on the protection of consumer rights for the use of a web resource by the participant are inapplicable, since there is no provision of commercial services.
23. Silence and neutrality on the part of the resource administrators team in the event of an obvious or hidden violation by a member of the Rules does not deprive the Administration of this site of the right to apply reasonable measures to protect the interests of the portal later.
24. In the case when, according to the laws of the Russian Federation, some rules are declared to be annulled, the other conditions remain in full force.
25. By visiting this portal, the participant confirms the unequivocal acceptance of the “Disclaimer” clause and the proposed Rules, in addition, he accepts all responsibilities that may be imposed on the user due to legitimate circumstances.
26. A team of portal administrators at any time has the right to make modifications to the Rules, which take effect immediately. Continued use of the portal after making modifications means that the participant automatically agrees with the new rules.The website from which you got to this page is protected by Cloudflare. Email addresses on that page have been hidden in order to keep them from being accessed by malicious bots. You must enable Javascript in your browser in order to decode the e-mail address.
If you have a website and are interested in protecting it in a similar way, you can sign up for Cloudflare.Recently I bought the LG V10 for my mother but I don’t know why it isn’t charging. Whenever I plug it in, it constantly displays a black screen. Help needed.
You might have gotten a defected phone. I suggest you should replace it if you can.
There might be a problem with your charger, maybe it is not giving enough juice or maybe it has gone bad or maybe your charging wire has been broken.
No, everything is working fine, I checked it on my brother’s phone.
I suggest that should get yourself a new battery for your phone from the local phone shop. This might be the solution for your problem or give it in for warranty if you have one.
the LG V10 not charging properly is the charging cable. Sometimes the charger cable has been damaged or lost the proper connection to charge the LG V10 . Before purchasing a new cable, try switching it out with another USB cable that works to see if the issue is with the cableAre you looking for some quality ringtones for your Android device? Or do you want an app that can easily cut a portion from your favorite MP3 music and set it as a ringtone?
Here I have shortlisted eleven best ringtone apps for Android smartphones and tablets that will help you in finding the perfect ringtone for your device.
#01 – ZEDGE Ringtones And Wallpapers
Zedge is one of the most popular apps that not only offers you an excellent collection of ringtones and notification sounds for your phone, but it also has a source of abundant wallpapers to customize your smartphones and tablets further.
It is favorite ringtone app for most of the users because it has many handy features like preparing your personalized list of ringtones and wallpapers, all the contents are properly arranged in categories, and the ability to set your favorite ringtones right from the app.
#02 – MP3 Cutter And Ringtone Maker
MP3 Cutter and Ringtone Maker will let you create a custom ringtone out of your favorite MP3 music or song without any requirement for professional computer software.
The app is not limited to trimming MP3 files only. It supports some other sound formats including WAV, AAC, AMR so that you can easily cut out a favorite part of any soundtrack.
#03 – Ringdroid
Ringdroid is one of those apps that have been available on the Android Play Store for a long time, and it still works smoothly and has no advertisement. It has been downloaded and trusted by millions of Android users from all over the world.
It is the only open-source ringtone creator and music editor application available on the Google Play Store that let you create personalized and custom ringtones that you can set as your alarm and other notification alerts.
#04 – Ringtone Maker
You can create personalized, and custom-made ringtones and notification sounds for your Android phone as set it as your ringtone, notification sound, or alarm right from the Ringtone Maker app.
You can trim the soundtrack either using the pointers or by manually typing in the timestamp for starting and ending. The supported file formats include WAV, MP3, AAC, M4A, AMR, MP4 and few other.
#05 – Popular Ringtones
As the name of the app itself says, you will find all the popular ringtones in one place in this app. There are so many ringtones that you can assign a unique tone for each of your favorite contacts, but still, you will be left with many.
The app Popular Ringtones will also let you download ringtones to your phone so that you can share it with your friends.
#06 – Ringtones & Wallpapers For Me
The Ringtones and Wallpapers for Me app is developed by Apalon Apps who is one of the top developers on the Google Play Store. The app is powered by the most wanted ringtones and wallpapers that will enable you to transform the look and sound of your device.
The app has some of the unique ringtones collection for different categories including romantic, formal, expressive, and funky.
#07 – Audiko Ringtones For Android
Audiko Ringtones for Android app provides one of the most extensive sources of notification sounds and ringtones for your device, which makes it easier for you to find some of the unique ringtones for each of your contact in your phonebook.
Also, it is important to mention that the developers have added a subscription option within the app that has somewhat imposed a limitation on the total number of downloads for the free version.
#08 – Cool Ringtones
Cool Ringtones is another app that provides tons of free ringtones for your device, which you can easily set as a notification sound for your messages or even set them as a ringtone for your special contacts so that you can easily recognize who is calling you just by hearing the incoming caller’s tune.
#09 – MTP Ringtones & Wallpapers
MTP Ringtones and Wallpapers app developed by MyTinyPhone, which offers a huge selection of ringtones, wallpapers, and other items to personalize your cell phone. The database receives frequent updates with new and popular ringtones as well as other mobile content for your Android device.
The tones are divided into various categories, and you can use keywords to narrow further down your search for any specific ringtone.
#10 – Super Loud Ringtones
Do you commute in public transport and miss important calls because you are unable to hear the ringtone?
Super Loud Ringtones app is here to help you out! The app contains a lot of super loud ringtones and sound effects to make sure that you can hear the bell when someone is calling you.
#11 – Best Classical Music Ringtones
As the name itself suggests, Best Classical Music Ringtones is the app that features some of the most classical ringtones that have some traditional touch in it including tunes from some famous music by Beethoven.
The app provides you with a huge selection of classic tones that are decent in quality and similar to other apps, you can directly set any ringtone as your SMS, notification or contact tone.
Which Ringtone App Is Your Favorite?
Do you have any favorite ringtone apps that I missed to include in the list? I would love to hear about them in the comments below! 🙂
Zedge is amazing and superb app among all. We the help of this app we can easily able to get wallpapers, ringtones, notification and live wallpapers also. And the main thing is that this app is free of cost and easy to use. Thanks for sharing some alternative app also.10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android
Writing a thesis involves a great deal of time, concentration, and research. Thirty years ago, working on a thesis meant…Download GTA San Andreas OBB Data Highly Compressed
GTA San Andreas APK for Android so if you are you a hardcore Grand Theft Auto fan and looking to play the game on your Android device for free then you have come to the right place.
Here we will give you GTA SA apk full version unlocked and complete highly compressed com.rockstargames.gtasa obb sd data file.
You will also get GTA San Andreas Mod apk (under 26 MB) to hack and modify the gameplay with unlimited money.
We have shared on this page about the cheats and Cleo mod hacks you can use on Grand Theft Auto San Andreas Android.
A complete step-by-step installation guide to help you download and install the game and data file for free on your Android phone.
Now before we share with you the installation guide for GTA San Andreas app, mod, and highly compressed data files, we feel that it is important to discuss the game and its features so you can better understand how the game looks and works on the Android devices.
We have all the GTA San Andreas apk variants available for all Android devices including the latest 2.00 apk as well as 1.08 apk and 1.07 apk.
About GTA San Andreas APK
GTA: SA (also widely known as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas) is a popular and highly successful action, third-person shooter, driving, and RPG game by Rockstar Games and Rockstar North. It is a 7th gaming title in the series of Grand Theft Auto.
Similar to the gameplay structure followed by the previous Grand Theft Auto series, the GTA San Andreas apk also provides you an interactive third-person view which gives you complete control over the way you want to interact with the open-world game environment. You can freely roam around the areas, explore shops, restaurants, steal cars and bikes from the streets, and cause destruction to the property and attack pedestrians.
This life-like game mainly consists of three cities i.e. Las Venturas, Los Santos, and San Fierro. And within those cities, your character is capable of walking, jumping, swimming, running, and have the capability to use a wide variety of destructive weapons, drive different kinds of vehicles, fly helicopters, ride motorcycles, boats, trains, and even those destructive tanks. Apart from stealing vehicles from the citizens, you can even import exclusive vehicles and then customize (by adding nitrous) to make them more powerful.
In an attempt to give the in-game world a realistic touch, all of the locations include vast regions of forests, deserts, beautiful landscapes, hilly areas, ponds, and mountains. There are some restricted areas too. You are free to play and move your character around to explore the in-game world.
GTA San Andreas is the first game that brings some of the most remarkable capabilities to customize the appearance of the in-game character. To make it possible, there are clothing stores with accessories, tattoo shops, hair salons, restaurants, and even a gym. Apparently, if you force your character to eat a lot of food then he will become fat then you need to take him to the gym for workouts and training to make him muscular and stay healthy.
Now you know that there is a lot to achieve and accomplish within the game. Apart from those usual storyline missions that are compulsory to complete to unlock certain content and areas, you are allowed to take part in small and interesting side missions to earn some extra in-game money like:
Paramedics, where you pick injured people from nearby areas and drive them to the hospital.
Burglary, where you have to break into the citizen’s home during the hours of darkness and steal expensive items like a television without being caught by the police.
Taxicab, where you work as a taxi driver to pick and drop passengers.
You can then spend all that earned money at various extents including shopping, food, car modifications, physical appearance, importing vehicles, gambling, and several other aspects.
In case you are running low on money or want to get vehicles without importing them then you can use hacks and cheats like CLEO mods scripts with GTA San Andreas apk. The cheat menu is what makes it the perfect hack for GTA SA. 😀
GTA San Andreas Storyline
The GTA SA storyline includes the main character Carl Johnson (CJ) who returns home located in Los Santos during the early 1990s. At this point in time, his mother has been murdered and he finds that his whole family has fallen apart and old childhood friends are ruining their life by heading towards unlawful activities, while the whole city is captured by cruel gang members and people are involved in corruption and drugs.
To find the truth behind his mother’s murder and save his family members, he goes all the way to rebuild his old street gang (Groove Street Families), clashes with the corrupt cops, and regains control over the streets of Los Santos and surrounding areas by taking part in gang warfare where he takes over the enemy territories. He also reduced the amount of drugs being used within the area.
Doing all of these helped CJ in gaining a lot of respect among his fellow friends and the neighborhood residents.
On the GTA San Andreas apk Android version, most of the gameplay structure and the missions are almost identical to the original PC version but developers have added several upgrades and enhancements to polish the game for mobile devices. They also added a much superior draw distance, detailed and dynamic shadows, enriched color palette, improvement in car models, and characters in an attempt to make the game more optimized for Android phones and tablet devices.
Did you know Rockstar Games have disabled cheat codes in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas and you can not use any cheats/hacks in the game? But don’t worry, we have tried a couple of apps that work and will help you enable cheats and hacks in GTA San Andreas within a matter of seconds. 😉
Year, 1997 – Grand Theft Auto
Year, 1999 – Grand Theft Auto London 1969
Year, 2001 – Grand Theft Auto III
Year, 2002 – Grand Theft Auto Vice City
Year, 2004 – Grand Theft Auto San Andreas
Year, 2005 – Grand Theft Auto Liberty City Stories
Year, 2006 – Grand Theft Auto Vice City Stories
Year, 2008 – Grand Theft Auto IV
Year, 2009 – Grand Theft Auto Chinatown Wars
Year, 2013 – Grand Theft Auto The Ballad of Gay Tony
GTA San Andreas Features
With the release of GTA San Andreas apk and data full version for Android, the developers behind the Rockstar Games integrated numerous additional features to enhance the overall gameplay, particularly for Android mobile devices. Some of the notable improvements are as follows:
Ability to play across all of your connected Android devices with the cloud game data saving support (available for Rockstar Social Club Members only).
Completely adjustable graphic settings to provide superior visual experience.
Customizable game controls and their color schemes with an option to display on-screen buttons only when needed. And
The total gameplay duration of over 70 amazing hours.
To make the gaming experience even more remarkable, the game even supports several game controllers including HUD-compliant USB, controllers manufactured by MOGA series as well as other Bluetooth based controllers.
Moreover, because GTA San Andreas is a resource-hungry game and consumes a lot of RAM and storage space, it is recommended to restart your device and close all the running apps before playing the game. This will ensure that the game performs well and doesn’t cause any unwanted lags and delays.
How to Install GTA San Andreas Mod & OBB Data
Here are the steps to download and install GTA San Andreas mod and obb data on your Android device:
Download GTA San Andreas APK as well as OBB data file from the links given at the beginning of this page.
Once downloaded, turn off WiFi and Data on your Android device to stop the GTA app from connecting to the server.
Install the apk file.
Extract the obb data zip file and copy the “com.rockstargames.gtasa” folder to this location on your Android:
SD Card/Android/obb/
Launch the game. It should work and will not ask for data file requirements.
GTA San Andreas for Android Android Demo Video
Do you want to see how the GTA San Andreas mobile video game looks like on Android? Check the following brief gameplay video demo to find out more about the game:
Download Gta San andress compress files
Yes, the link is given in the blog post above.
How to download this app
Download APK and OBB data files. And follow the guide given within the blog post. It should work.
How to get highly compressed files for GTA SA….please I need help
I am working on it. Highly compressed OBB data files will be available in a couple of days. Thanks for your patience.
GTA is very best gameAbout Best Android Forum - Get Solutions & Fixes to Android Problems
Dedicated Android Discussion Forum to help you quickly solve Android related problems and discuss best apps, tips, tricks, how to, tutorials, and everything related to Android with the community.
Our Admins
steve - Steve Curin
farzanhussain - Mohammad Farzan Hussain
Our Moderators
Shayan_2002 - Shayan 2002
Site Statistics
|All Time||Last 7||Last 30|
|Topics||325||0||4|
|Posts||4858||16||43|
|Users||493||2||7|
|Active Users||—||13||22|
|Likes||267||1||3||Welcome to Best Android Forum || ||0 ||1744 ||April 12, 2016 |
|What are some of best Horror Games for Android? || ||5 ||643 ||October 26, 2020 |
|Spotify Free Premium APK Song Download Problem || ||11 ||7215 ||October 26, 2020 |
|What are some of the best free movie downloading apps for android? || ||17 ||4925 ||October 24, 2020 |
|How to Convert Spotify Playlist to MP3 || ||4 ||86 ||October 22, 2020 |
|How to Convert Apple Music to MP3 || ||2 ||58 ||October 13, 2020 |
|How To Set Spotify Song as Alarm on Android || ||2 ||105 ||October 9, 2020 |
|I Am Looking For A App For streaming, but any free one || ||0 ||37 ||October 5, 2020 |
|What are some of the Best Apps to be More Productive? || ||4 ||748 ||October 1, 2020 |
|How to download Among Us on Xbox? || ||0 ||67 ||September 29, 2020 |
|How to Download and Convert Spotify Music to MP3 || ||5 ||286 ||September 29, 2020 |
|Phone stuck in a boot loop and recovery mode is unaccessable || ||1 ||113 ||September 28, 2020 |
|Free Spotify premium! || ||11 ||2098 ||September 25, 2020 |
|What are the best Flash on Call Alert app in 2020? || ||3 ||172 ||September 25, 2020 |
|Asus 6 camera rattles when rotate || ||0 ||44 ||September 24, 2020 |
|Share Your Favorite Video Player Apps For Android || ||9 ||1259 ||September 24, 2020 |
|How to Root Android Mobile Phone Without PC || ||9 ||724 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Best sources to download MovieBox APK & Alternatives || ||24 ||7713 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Best Free Ringtones For Android || ||24 ||4194 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Rog phone 3 isn't connecting to WIFI automatically || ||1 ||79 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Questions about Spotify Premium APK || ||6 ||1788 ||September 23, 2020 |
|What are some best apps to find alternative apps? || ||3 ||188 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Share your favorite wallpaper apps for Android || ||4 ||802 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Galaxy s7 edge battery draining while charging || ||20 ||749 ||September 22, 2020 |
|What is Easiest Way to Download Online Videos for Offline Viewing? || ||19 ||3172 ||September 22, 2020 |
|How to disable the Bixby Button on Samsung Galaxy S8, S8+ & Note 8? || ||4 ||1158 ||September 17, 2020 |
|Best App for Android to Download and Convert Online Video to Mp3 For Listening || ||33 ||8425 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How To Transfer Apps Between Android Devices || ||11 ||823 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How to Transfer Pictures from Your Android Device to PC || ||10 ||978 ||September 15, 2020 |
|Spotify closing out for no reason || ||2 ||181 ||September 15, 2020 |Fix common VPN issues and connection problems with this quick troubleshooting guide to get it up and running again. Believe it or not, but VPN, also known as Virtual Private Network, has become one of the essential tools to gain unprecedented access to the restricted side of the Internet.
As technology becomes more and more advanced & the further we go into the future, we find ourselves using it in almost every aspect of our lives.
One of the greatest things that made our lives simpler to this day is the Internet. Used for almost every possible purpose you need it for, the Internet provides us with a great deal of information we require in every moment of our day.
Talking about VPN, although the software and accessibility have become a lot more advanced than ever before, there are moments when we fail to access the Internet. Even with the VPN enabled, which can make us go crazy.
We encounter several VPN problems and issues, most of which are easily fixable, but we all need a starting point, don’t we? That is precisely why we have created this troubleshooting guide.
Troubleshoot Guide to Known VPN Issues and Their Solutions
As said above, although VPNs give you great possibilities and options, while making sure you remain anonymous online, they too can have a moment of weakness. Here we have listed some common problems and their solutions to help you troubleshoot the issues.
Known VPN Issues and Problems
Here we have listed some of the commonly known VPN issues that create connection problems and cause intermittent connectivity issues.
- Running an outdated VPN app or software,
- Some known issue within the VPN application,
- VPN incompatibility with the browser,
- Overburdened VPN server,
- Using unstable VPN protocol,
- Failure to reach the location outside the VPN server.
Connection Issues with VPN
We are going to start with the basics. There are moments when VPN fails to connect you to the Internet due to several known reasons and in those cases, you can follow these steps:
- Check Account Status – See if your VPN service is still valid and active. And double-check your login credentials.
- Check Your Internet Connection – Disconnect/stop your VPN and see if your Internet connection is working directly without a VPN.
- See If VPN Servers Are Online – There are instances where specific VPN servers are offline. To check that, try logging into the VPN service provider’s website and look into the status of servers.
- Look Into Firewall Settings – Firewall, if not correctly configured, does interfere with VPN all the time because all your outgoing and incoming Internet traffic goes through it. Try to disable it for a while and check if that resolves the issue.
Issues with Establishing Tunnels Connection
There could be an issue with establishing tunnels connection between the VPN client and the VPN server. That happens because of either the IP packet filtering process or the proxy server.
- IP Packet Filtering – IP packet filtering prevents the connectivity between the server and tunnel connection from establishing. Your router or the VPN software usually does this filtration process. That can be disabled/configured through TCP/IP settings.
- Proxy Servers – Proxy servers, if enabled, makes the network appear as if the tunnel connection is being established and coming through proxy servers rather than the client. That prevents the tunnel connection from forming, which is also known as NAT issue.
The best-recommended method to establish proper tunnel connection is through PPTP, which is a Point To Point Tunnel Protocol. That usually resolves the problem.
Frequent Disconnection Issue with VPN
If your VPN app or software has successfully established a connection but then automatically disconnects after a while, this can become annoying. Not only that but also, this can be a threat to your security as disconnection from the VPN could cause you to reveal your identity accidentally.
- Connect To A Different Server – At times, the server you have preferred to connect to could be experiencing downtime or poor connection. That will cause frequent disconnection. The best way to check and resolve this is by connecting to another server to see if the problem persists.
- Change DNS Server – Disconnection of VPN is sometimes linked with the DNS server too. For enhanced security and in an attempt to add another layer of privacy, the majority of the VPN service providers give you their DNS services, but oftentimes those cause stability issues. So it is better to use your DNS servers for better connectivity.
Unable to Access Online Streaming Services like Netflix
Many users turn to VPN simply because they want to gain access to online streaming services that are geo-locked by the publishers and content providers. With that being said, not every VPN provider is strong enough to fix these issues.
- To resolve this and if you are having issues with VPN inaccessibility and being tracked by advanced tracking methods, then one of the best things to do is to find a VPN app with a more exceptional ability to bypass censorship.
Other Issues That You Might Encounter With VPN
Here are some other issues that you might be encountering with your VPN software and what exactly you can do to fix it:
- Switch Servers – If your VPN is constantly sluggish and losing connection, there is a massive chance that the server you are connected to has some issues. To fix this, try connecting to a different server in the same country. Once connected, run a speed test, and you will get an insight into how good the connection is.
- Switch Port Numbers – For a connection to be made from your device and a VPN server, you use a particular port connection on your end. It is highly possible that the port is overloaded and thus resulting in a slow connection or causes you not to gain access to blocked websites and streaming services. Changing your port will solve the issue, but if this does not work, then our advice is to contact the VPN customer support for further details since this particular task is not as easy as it seems.
- Check Security Programs Installed On Your Device – Since VPN software and apps work closely with the internet connection and the same software is designed to redirect your traffic, so this could be detected as a security threat by antivirus programs. Temporarily shutting off security software and disabling your firewall may improve the connectivity issues. Note that disabling your firewall permanently is not a proper solution, but it may cause some problems with the internet connection.
- Test The Workability Of VPN With Local Servers – This is specifically for those who travel and use VPN to gain access to the blocked content. Unfortunately, some countries are “forgetting privacy laws” and thus make it harder for individuals to connect to local servers or blocks access to specific websites. The best solution is to check the connection to the particular server before traveling.
There you have it, guys! We believe by using this quick troubleshooting guide, you should be able to fix some of the known VPN issues that you may encounter on your day-to-day basis.
VPN software exists to make your experience on the Internet safer and securer, so it is always recommended to make sure you choose the right one before venturing out on the web.
So before ending this blog post, here we have a little bit of information about the VPN:
What are VPN and Why Do We Use It?
Virtual Private Network or VPN is an essential tool to be used when it comes to protecting your privacy and guaranteeing your safety online. With its primary function allowing you to have a secure connection to another network over the Internet.
That acts as protection while at the same time, allowing you to gain access to geo-restricted services and websites, and to bypass Internet censorship. VPN also works as a shield to hide your browsing activity from the government or agencies and to maintain anonymity.
You can use a reputable VPN app to:
- Encrypt your Internet traffic and protect your privacy from ISP (Internet Service Provider), the government, the website you are visiting, or even by any possible third-party viewers such as hackers while you are on public Wi-Fi.
- Bypass possible censorship as well as an option to access geo-restricted websites and content with the ability to spoof identity anywhere in the world.
- Watch or listen to geographically restricted exclusive content on services like Hulu, Netflix, or other video or music streaming apps.
- Protect your privacy and stop yourself from being logged while you are using torrent services.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidAre you looking for the best working methods that allow you to convert videos from YouTube to MP3 format directly on your Android phone? Then you have come to the right place as we have created a list of free and reliable YouTube to MP3 converter.
Here in this article, we have manually tried and tested all the available YouTube to MP3 converter apps and websites, and then listed all the working methods using which you can quickly convert your favorite YouTube music videos to MP3 format, download it and then listen to it on your Android audio player in an easy to play MP3 format.
For those of you who don’t know how to convert videos from YouTube to MP3 then please check the beginners tutorial at the end of this article. 😀
Disclaimer: All the data and material provided in this article is for the informational and educational purpose only. Downloading videos from YouTube and storing it for any offline usage is against YouTube terms of service unless you are legally authorized by the video owner.
The YouTube’s new Terms of Service is the reason why most of the YouTube to MP3 converter apps and websites are taken down or removed from the Google Play App Store. To help you out, below we have listed the free best converter apps & websites that are still available and let you convert YouTube videos to MP3 without any requirement to create an account.
Best YouTube To MP3 Converter Apps For Android
This section is for those of you who are you searching for the YouTube to MP3 converter apps for Android smartphone.
For most of the users, as compared to the website-based converters, YouTube to MP3 converter apps are a lot simpler and easier to use because they contain fewer advertisements, provide an enhanced user interface, maximized compatibility, and quickly help you convert videos to MP3 audio format.
1. TubeMate
TubeMate is a powerful app for Android smartphones and is probably the best solution for downloading YouTube videos in multiple resolutions and seamlessly converting YouTube to MP3 without any issue. Also, you can directly download MP3 too.
You must be wondering how? The process is pretty straightforward.
Using the link given below, download the TubeMate app and install it on your Android phone. And then open the app.
You will notice that the user interface is more like a web browser running the YouTube mobile version. Now, there is a search bar given within the app, you can quickly search for the videos you want to download. The app is so much powerful that it allows you to directly convert YouTube videos to MP3 format and then download it directly on your phone.
Download TubeMate for Android
You can download TubeMate latest version for free from the official website link below:
Download TubeMate APK
2. SnapTube
SnapTube is another free YouTube video and music downloader app that allows you to convert YouTube to MP3 right on your Android smartphone. The app is intuitive, fast and lets you quickly download MP3 version of any YouTube video with the help of one-click direct MP3 download functionality.
The app provides you with a native search option using which you can easily search for your favorite videos and then convert them into MP3 format. And the built-in download manager allows you to manage all of your downloads in one place.
Download SnapTube for Android
You can download SnapTube latest version for free from the official website link below:
Download SnapTube APK
Best YouTube To MP3 Converter Sites For Your Phone
If in case the apps mentioned in the previous section didn’t work for you due to any reason or maybe you are more interested in having a list of YouTube to MP3 converter websites because you don’t want to install any downloader apps then this section is for you. 😉
You should have a look at the list of websites that are providing YouTube to MP3 conversion for a long time now. They don’t have any limitation. And you don’t even need to create any account.
The only problem with these YouTube to MP3 converter websites is that many of them are popup advertisement supported. And sometimes those frequent ads might become annoying for you. Anyways, apart from showing you advertisements, these websites works perfectly and are absolutely free to use.
Mentioned below is our handpicked list of YouTube to MP3 converter sites that should allow you to download MP3 YouTube music on your Android smartphone:
- YouTube MP3: This site let you convert any YouTube video easily in seconds, they have added some extra functionality which enables you to get Music Audio in low and high quality as per your demand and also you can increase or decrease the volume as per your requirement, give it a try.
- Convert2MP3.net
- YouTube-MP3.org
- ClipConverter.cc
- ListenToYouTube.com
- YouTube2MP3.cc
- VidToMP3.com
- YouTubeConverter.me
- KeepVid.com
- SaveFrom.net
Unlike apps, even though YouTube has strict terms of service, but most of these YouTube to MP3 converter websites will remain active and would never let you down. 😀
How To Download MP3 From The YouTube To MP3 Converter Websites
This section is especially for those of you who are a beginner and don’t have much technical knowledge about using these converter websites to download videos in MP3 format.
Anyways, to be able to convert YouTube videos to MP3 format using the above-mentioned websites, here is what you need to do:
- Launch the YouTube app on your Android phone.
- Open the Music video using the search option.
- Copy the URL by tapping on the “Share” button and then tap on the “Copy URL” option.
- Once the link has been copied, you can then go to any of the website URL mentioned above using Google Chrome web browser.
- When the website has been loaded properly, you will see an input box, this is where you need to paste the YouTube URL you copied earlier in Step 3.
- Now, depending on the website you are using, look for the MP3 option and then tap on the download button.
- The MP3 format of your provided YouTube music video should begin downloading on your phone shortly.
Conclusion
In my personal opinion, TubeMate YouTube to MP3 converter app is the best and the most reliable option to download MP3 format of your favorite YouTube music videos directly on your Android phone. But MP3 converter sites work well too.
In case if you experience any problem while using YouTube to MP3 converter apps or sites then please let us know in the comments section below and our support team will help you out. 🙂
I use ytmp3c.cc, It’s fast!Are you tired of searching for the best emoji keyboard app for your Android device? Now you need to look no further as here I have tried and tested some of the most reliable emoji keyboards.
There are some Android devices that still do not come with a preinstalled emoji supported keyboard, and this is exactly why Android users start their search for third-party keyboards that provides some beautiful and attractive emojis to express your feelings in messages better.
If you search on the Google Play Store, you will come across thousands of emoji keyboards. But most of them are bloatware and will not work with every Android device, and might cause stability issues.
To make your task easier, here I have shortlisted the ten best emoji keyboards apps for Android that are the most reliable and will provide you with the best emoji support.
#01 – Go Keyboard – Emoji, Sticker
Go Keyboard, developed by the Go Keyboard Dev Team who is one of the top developers at the Play Store, is downloaded and trusted by more than 200 million users.
The app allows you to turn the straightforward and basic looking keyboard into the coolest keyboard using thousands and thousands of personalization possibilities including colorful themes, fonts and most importantly, it has built-in support for emoji and stickers that will make your chats with your friends more eye-catching.
#02 – Kika Keyboard – Emoji, GIFs
Kika Keyboard will transform your emoji-less keyboard into a fully customizable keyboard and will add support for all the new Android emojis and emoticons that you will only find in the latest Android operating systems.
The app is developed by Kika Keyboard Team and has been downloaded by millions and millions of users who use it every day to make their conversations with their friends and relatives full of attractive emojis. The app has an average user rating of 4.3.
#03 – TouchPal Keyboard – Cute Emoji
Developed and designed by the TouchPal development team, the app TouchPal Keyboard have native support for cute emoji, smileys, GIFs, text-based faces, and emoticons. And you can input these anywhere during your conversation.
You can even customize the emoji and emoticon layout, and prepare your list of personalized and frequently used emojis so that you don’t have to go through an extensive list of emoticons while having a conversation.
#04 – Kika Emoji Keyboard Pro + GIFs
Kika Emoji Keyboard Pro does not only give you a huge collection of emojis, but you will also get GIFs, emoticons, and stickers to make your conversations more personalized and unique.
And because it is a standalone keyboard app so you will get complete access to customize the interface and layout using themes, background images, fonts and even touch sounds. You can even create your unique theme that will imitate your style.
#05 – Flash Keyboard – Emojis & More
Flash Keyboard app is developed by DotC United, and it features over four hundred new emojis that is apparently classified to make it easier for you to find the ones that you like the most.
Apart from that, the app has a vast collection of emoticons and even allows you to create your set of personalized stickers labels using the photos stored on your device. That will give all of your conversations a unique touch.
#06 – ai.type Free Emoji Keyboard
This free Emoji Keyboard is developed by ai.type who is the Top Developer at Google Play App Store. The app has the user base of over forty million users who have successfully transformed their messaging experience using a broad range of emoji.
The latest release has even added support for GIF using their Guggy GIF Box. The keyboard uses a special algorithm that learns your writing style and predicts you the right words while making your typing experience smoother and snappier.
#07 – Emoji Keyboard Cute Emoticons
Are you looking for the keyboard that has native support for some cute emoticons and emoji?
This keyboard app by Colorful Emoji Keyboard will let you does that and even have all the emojis and emoticons that are added by Google in the new Android 6.0 Marshmallow.
You can easily use these emoticons and stickers during your conversion via email, SMS, or any other social media app like Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp.
#08 – Bitmoji – Your Personal Emoji
Bitmoji is one of the most popular emoji apps on the Google Play Store as it enables you to create your personalized set of cartoon-based avatars and build your library of stickers for every occasion using the predefined templates.
Developed by the widespread company Bitstrips, the app allows you to use the emojis created by Bitmoji in Snapchat and other standard messaging apps.
#09 – TouchPal Emoji Keyboard
Do you want to make the conversations between you and your friends unique?
I will suggest you to go for TouchPal Emoji Keyboard as it has a collection of hundreds and hundreds of emoticons, GIFs, emoji, and text-based faces, to make sure that you can use them in every conversation regardless of the app you are using.
You can even give your keyboard a personalized touch either by using the built-in set of themes or by creating a custom theme.
#10 – Keyboard – Emoji, Emoticons
The app Keyboard – Emoji, Emoticons is one of the top keyboards on the Play Store that supports hundreds of emoticons, GIFs, text emoticons, smileys that you can use on Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram, WhatsApp, Twitter, or any other social media app.
The app supports over 30 different languages and all the traditional keyboard layouts including QWERTY, AZERTY, and QWERTZ, along with easy access to the core editing functions like copy, paste, and cut. The keyboard is resizable to make sure that it fits according to your device’s screen size.
Which Emoji Keyboards App Is Your Personal Favorite?
Do you know about any other emoji keyboards apps that I forgot to add in the list? Let me know in the comments section below; I would love to hear your reviews! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidAnything and everything related to the LG Android Phones can be discussed here with the community. Share your problems, queries, and experiences about your LG phone.Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
I bought a Samsung smart TV for my bedroom a few weeks ago and although it has Netflix I was wondering how one can install Play Store and any other third-party apps in the smart TV if there is no Google Play Store installed/found in the TV.Asphalt 8 Airborne apk mod and obb data (highly compressed) file available for download for Android, you can get unlimited money, anti-ban, unlimited credit, maximum stars, free shopping, infinite nitro, unlock all tracks and races. This will ensure that you enjoy the game to the fullest without worrying about credits, nitrous, and money.
About Asphalt 8 Airborne APK
Without any doubt, Asphalt 8 Airborne is one of the best racing games on Android that provides you with four different control options i.e. tap to steer, tilt to steer, tilt to steer along with on-screen controls for acceleration & brake. Moreover, the dynamic weather and upgraded maps and physics are what give you one of the most realistic racing experience on mobile devices.
In the Asphalt 8 apk, you will find about 190 high-performance cars and bikes with the ability to push each one of them beyond their limits. You can upgrade and customize your vehicles using the huge collection of decals to stylize as you wish. Furthermore, the game has over forty high-speed tracks taken out of 16 exciting locations.
But to be able to enjoy all of those to its max, it is important to have tokens, credits, and money. Not to forget that tracks and races need to be unlocked too, which requires you to play in a career mode and compete with the rivals while winning all of them to reach the next levels that will reward you with new tracks, cars, bikes, and tokens.
We know that all of that requires a lot of time and effort.
However, now with the help of Asphalt 8 Airborne mod apk, you can gain access to all of that higher-level features with just a tap on the button. You will be able to shop for free, have an unlimited amount of in-game money including credits, tokens, and money.
The Asphalt 8 mod app latest version will also let you multiply the booster time, take your profile to the max levels, and give you unlimited nitro so that you can win all the races.
Features of Asphalt 8 Airborne Mod for Android
Several Asphalt 8 Airborne mod and mega mod apk files are available on the Internet but the best one is the Asphalt 8 mega mod apk hack as it makes use of multiple in-game currency exploits for unlimited everything. Features of this hack are as follows (some may not work):
- Unlimited credits,
- Unlimited tokens,
- Unlimited money,
- Unlimited nitro,
- Free shopping,
- Max levels,
- Max stars,
- Booster time multiplier,
- The opponent cannot use nitro,
- Unlock all races,
- All cars unlocked mod,
- Unlock all tracks,
- Anti-ban mod in single-player mode.
How to Install Asphalt 8 APK Mod and OBB Data?
Following are the steps you need to follow to properly download and install free Asphalt 8: Airborne apk, mod and obb data on your Android phone or tablet devices:
- First, you need to uninstall any previous version of Asphalt 8 Airborne from your Android device.
- Download the Asphalt 8 mod apk and OBB data file from the download link given in this article.
- Once downloaded, turn off WiFi and Data on your Android device to stop the app from connecting to the server.
- Install the game using the APK file.
- Extract the OBB data zip file and copy the “com.gameloft.android.ANMP.GloftA8HM” folder to this location on your Android:
SDCard/Android/data/
- Turn on WiFi and launch the game. It will check for the data and verify from the server. This must need to be done on the first run.
- You can then enjoy the game with all the above-mentioned mods and hacks.
OBB says package not available
Will reupload in a few days.Mobile Phones Samsung
|Topic||Replies||Views||Activity|
|About the Samsung category||0||497||March 8, 2017|
|How to disable the Bixby Button on Samsung Galaxy S8, S8+ & Note 8?||4||1158||September 17, 2020|
|How to Turn Off Auto Correct On Samsung Galaxy S7 And S8||5||889||June 22, 2020|
|Samsung Galaxy S6 Won't Charge||8||897||March 27, 2020|
|No ringtones on Galaxy S7?||3||465||February 14, 2020|
|Samsung Galaxy S5 Keeps Restarting||5||720||January 30, 2018|Are you in search for a SimCity BuildIt mod apk for Android phone and tablet devices with unlimited Simoleons, NeoSimoleons, SimCash, Golden Keys, Platinum Keys, money, and coins? You have come to the right place as here we have a working SimCity BuildIt mod latest version that works on every Android device and does not require root.
About SimCity BuildIt Mod APK
SimCity BuildIt is an Android variant of the popular computer game SimCity by Electronic Arts. It is a free-to-play game and includes in-app purchases if you want to speed things up by spending real cash/money.
The key element of the game is to build the city of your dreams, where you are the mayor and completely responsible to create and design the city that people loves. You need to make smart decisions to keep your citizens happy.
The game has three main zones i.e. residential, commercial, and industrial. Each zone has their own set of buildings and each building can be upgraded to higher levels, which increases their revenue generation, population, as well as their impact on its surroundings.
As your city starts to grow, you need to make sure that your citizens are receiving all the required services that include power, sewerage, water, and waste management. Apart from those necessities, you are also responsible to provide the residents with services like police, fire, health, and CNet towers.
There are five in-game currencies i.e. Simoleons, SimCash, Golden Keys, Platinum Keys, and NeoSimoleons, which can be earned or purchased (depending on the currency type) and can be used to purchase buildings, upgrade resources, or perform other in-game purchases like trading or shipment.
That is all about the intro to the game. Now we will tell you about the features and installation of SimCity BuildIt mod apk on Android phones and tablet devices…
Features of SimCity BuildIt Mod APK
SimCity BuildIt mod apk for Android has certain key features that make it easy for everyone to enjoy the modded version of the game with all the functionalities enabled from the beginning:
No Root Access Required – This version of mod does not require you to have rooted Android phone/tablet device.
Connect To Facebook – Even though it is a modded version, but you will still be able to log in and connect to your existing account and sync your SimCity BuildIt game progress.
Unlimited In-Game Resources – You will get unlimited Golden Keys, unlimited Platinum Keys, unlimited Simoleons, unlimited NeoSimoleons, unlimited SimCash, unlimited coins, unlimited money, and unlimited cash so you can purchase whatever you want.
Already Constructed Buildings – Most of the buildings are already constructed and upgraded to their highest level.
Full Happiness Level – Your city will have 100% happiness level.
Omega Buildings – All the buildings and resources are upgraded to the omega level.
Massive Population – Your city will have a population of whopping8 million.
SimCity BuildIt Mod APK Demo Screenshots
We have attached some screenshots of the SimCity BuildIt mod in action so you can see what you will get in the modified version of the game.
How To Install SimCity BuildIt Mod APK
IMPORTANT: Installation of SimCity BuildIt mod version will remove all of your existing save game progress. We will recommend you to make a backup of your save game before proceeding with the installation.
The SimCity BuildIt mod apk installer provided here contains modified SimCity BuildIt apk, Data (obb), mega mod, and save files. To be able to properly install and run the SimCity BuildIt mod apk on your Android phone/tablet device, you need to follow these simple steps:
If you have the original SimCity BuildIt app already installed on your phone then first you need to uninstall it.
Download SimCity BuildIt mod apk from the link given below.
On your Android phone, you need to enable the option that allows installation of apps from unknown sources.
Start the installation of the SimCity BuildIt Mod Installer apk.
Once installed, the installer app will appear on the home screen. Simply tap on it and the installer will automatically begin extracting and preparing all the required files for the installation of SimCity BuildIt mod on your Android phone.
When all the files are extracted, you will see a prompt asking you to install an update to the existing version of SimCity. Tap on Install button.
Once successfully installed, you will see the SimCity icon on the homescreen. Do NOT launch the game yet.
First, you need to either turn on Airplane Mode or turn off both WiFi and Mobile Data connection.
Now launch SimCity BuildIt game. After loading, you will see the screen that says, “Mayor, your city has not been online for 3 days. Please connect to the internet to continue.”
This is when you need to either turn off Airplane Mode or turn on WiFi connection on your device.
Then tap on the Retry button.
A loading screen will appear. Wait for a while.
Now, SimCity will show you a message that says, “Your offline progress will be saved to the server when you reconnect.” Tap on OK button.
You can now start playing the modded SimCity BuildIt game with unlimited resources, money, cash, Golden Keys, Platinum Keys, Simoleons, NeoSimoleons, and SimCash.
Since it is a modified game and having an active internet connectivity could crash the game, so whenever you want to play the game you are required to follow Step 8 to Step 13. Otherwise, the game will not run and you will be stuck in SimCity BuildIt connecting to server screen.
Contact [email protected] for all types of hacking services. He is a cyber expert in any type of hacking services. It’s been hell trying to locate a genuine hacker, but luckily i recently came across an EC council certified encryption specialist, advanced penetration testing and a computer hacking forensic investigator. A very grounded fellow i must say. If you require the service of a competent hacker you can reach out to him via email.
Contact [email protected] for all types of hacking services. He is a cyber expert in any type of hacking services. It’s been hell trying to locate a genuine hacker, but luckily i recently came across an EC council certified encryption specialist, advanced penetration testing and a computer hacking forensic investigator. A very grounded fellow i must say. If you require the service of a competent hacker you can reach out to him via email.
It says that I has corrupted files
Please try to download it again. If the problem persists then let me know.Spotify Free Premium APK [Mod]
With Spotify, you can play millions of songs and podcasts for free. Listen to the songs and podcasts you love and find music from all over the world.
Pandora cracked mod apk is known by various names including Pandora One, Pandora Radio, and Pandora Internet Radio and it…
TubeMate for Android to download videos from video streaming websites directly on your Android device. Many sites do not officially…
Spotify apk download for Android and listen to music, songs, and podcasts anytime and anywhere. It’s an all in one…
InsTube apk YouTube downloader app for Android phone and tablet devices that let you download your favorite music and videos…
TVMC apk for Android download now to enjoy tons of movies, TV shows, and stream content directly on your Android…
Dentex YouTube Downloader apk for Android available to help you download your favorite videos from YouTube directly on your Android…
Mobdro APK – Have you ever thought about a mobile app that will let you stream all types of live…
Are you looking for movie streaming apps or want to download movies and TV shows on your Android phone/tablet? You…
OneBox HD apk & mod will let you watch, stream, and download all the latest movies and TV shows on…A step-by-step guide on how to change Spotify username on Android, iPhone, iPad, Windows, or Mac devices. We have shared four working methods that are very simple and easy to follow to help you add/change your randomly generated Spotify username.
Solution number three on our list is the best workaround to change your username…
For those of you who don’t know, Spotify is one of the best apps to listen to your favorite music as well as download the complete playlists for the offline listening experience.
What is Spotify Username?
The Spotify username is intended to be your unique identity on the music-streaming platform and is automatically assigned the moment you create your account due to security reasons. However, it is not required for you to remember that detail, and it does not even show up anywhere unless you have created a display name (more on this later).
Since the username is hardwired to your account and acts as an identity, so, unfortunately, there is no possible way to change your Spotify username in any case.
Moreover, you don’t even need to use your randomly generated username to login to your Spotify account. Simply use your email address and password, and you are good to go.
Psst… Do you know you can download Spotify Premium mod on your Android with all the premium features enabled including unlimited skips, audio and visual ads blocked, unlimited shuffle, and option to play any song? All of that for free available here. 😀
Guide on How to Change Spotify Username on Android, iOS, Windows, Mac
Here we have a complete step-by-step guide on how you can change your Spotify username on all platforms including Android, iPhone, iPad, Windows, and Mac devices:
1. Connect an Existing Spotify Account to Facebook
Spotify allows you to connect your existing account with your Facebook, which lets you log in using your Facebook credentials. And will hide your ugly Spotify username as well.
Not only that, once connected, but your Spotify account will also display your Facebook profile picture and name across Spotify. That will make it easier for your friends to find you on Spotify and vice versa.
Steps for Spotify App
Here’s how to connect your existing Spotify account to Facebook through the Spotify app:
- Open the Spotify app on your phone/tablet device.
- Tap on the “Home” button.
- Tap on the gear icon located at the upper-right corner to go to “Settings.”
- Scroll down and look for the “Social” option. Once found, tap it.
- Here you should be able to find the “Connect to Facebook” button, tap it to begin the process.
The process may ask for your Facebook login details if opened on the browser. Else, you will be redirected to the Facebook app if that’s already installed on your device.
Steps for Desktop
Follow these steps to connect your Spotify to Facebook on the Spotify desktop app:
- Launch the Spotify app on your computer.
- Click the drop-down menu button located at the top-right corner (right next to your profile).
- Click on “Settings.”
- Scroll down and look for the “Social” section. There will be a sub-section for “Facebook.”
- You will see a “Connect to Facebook” button. Click on it to start the process.
A popup window will open automatically where you will be asked to enter your Facebook login details. Once done, click on “Log In” and you are good to go.
2. Add or Change Your Spotify Display Name
Spotify allows you to add or change your display name whenever you want, which also hides your randomly generated username and gives you a more personalized feeling. This change will be visible on your profile, playlists, and friend activity section.
Here’s how you can achieve this on devices running Android or iOS:
- Open the Spotify app on your device.
- Tap on the “Home” button.
- Tap on the gear icon located at the upper-right corner to go to “Settings.”
- Tap on your name or “View Profile” option.
- You will see the “Edit Profile” button. Tapping on it will let you add or change your display name as well as your profile picture.
Once you are satisfied with the changes to your display name and profile photo, then tap on the “Save” button. That’s how simple it really is.
3. Create a Brand New Spotify Account
Although it is a bit lengthy process creating a new Spotify account is one of the only working methods actually to change your Spotify username.
The process is lengthy because it requires you to contact the Spotify support team. After all, you have to set up a new account but using the exact same email address. Your account status, playlists, podcasts, saved music, and artists/people you are following, as well as every other detail will be copied to your new account from your existing account.
Yes, that does sound overwhelming; that’s why we have discussed more about the process below and how you can achieve it.
Close/delete your current account
Yes, this is the first step. And it would be best if you did this.
Here’s how:
- If you are a Spotify Premium user, then you have first cancel your Premium plan subscription and switch to a Spotify Free.
- Once done successfully, you have to contact Spotify customer support using this link to request them to close your account permanently. The link will take you to the contact form.
- From the list of categories, you have to select “Account.”
- Then from a list of topics, you have to select “I want to close my account.”
- On the next page, select the “Close Account” option.
That will take you to another page where you can proceed to close your Spotify account.
Sign up for a new account
Now you have to sign up for a new Spotify account. But since we are using the same email address for this new account so you may need to contact the support staff.
Here’s what you have to do:
- Using any web browser, open the Spotify homepage (similar to how you use the web player).
- Click on the “Sign Up” button located at the top-right corner.
- On the sign up page, fill in all the details. And make sure to enter the correct new username in the “What we should call you?” box.
- Once done, click on the green “Sign Up” box.
- You will receive an email notification about your new account.
You can now use the Spotify customer support page and ask the support staff to transfer all of your previous account details to your new account. And you must have to complete this task within the seven days of closing your old account.
4. Sign Up for a New Spotify Account with Facebook
Alternatively, apart from following the solution number three above, you can sign up for a new Spotify account using Facebook, which will also help you to get a custom username for your account.
This is pretty simple, and here is what you have to do:
- Using any web browser, open the Spotify homepage.
- Click on the “Sign Up” button located at the top-right corner.
- On the sign up page, click on “Sign Up with Facebook.”
- Enter your Facebook account details to log in to your account and authorize Spotify to create a new account.
That is all you have to do. You should shortly receive an email in your inbox from Spotify regarding your new account.
Conclusion
We hope you have found this tutorial helpful and managed to change your Spotify username and display name as per your liking. If you have any specific questions related to usernames or Spotify, feel free to ask in the comments section below.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android- Step-by-step guide on how to download Instagram photos and videos on Android using 10 best Instagram downloader apps for free.
- Some apps even let you download Instagram TV, i.e., IGTV videos on your Android as well so that you can share it somewhere else.
- You can quickly download Instagram stories and highlights of your friends and favorite celebrities.
- Save and reshare Instagram pictures and videos within a matter of minutes.
Instagram is one of the most popular and increasingly growing social media platforms that has been reaching new heights and has become a lot more popular than ever before. Hundreds and thousands of users are creating and publishing millions of posts, stories, pictures, videos, and IGTV videos on the platform daily.
While scrolling through our Instagram feeds, we come across many posts that we find related to our day-to-day life, and that is exactly when we want to save those photos and videos so that we can reshare them with our followers on Instagram or other social media platforms.
There could be several reasons for wanting to save Instagram photos and videos on Android like saving a beautiful scenic photo and set them as your phone’s wallpaper, sharing some funny videos with your friends’ group on WhatsApp, who don’t have an Instagram account.
Although sharing Instagram photos and videos within Instagram is easy, however, to be able to save or download those images or videos or IGTV videos and share it outside Instagram, you will need to have a dedicated app. That’s what this article is all about, various apps with different ways to download Instagram posts.
10 Best Ways to Download Instagram Photos and Videos on Android
Here we have reviewed ten best ways to help you download Instagram photos and videos on Android. We have also included a step-by-step guide with each method to make it easier for you to save pictures and videos from Instagram quickly.
Save Reposter for Instagram
A popular app for downloading photos and videos from Instagram, Save Reposter has an impressive 4.6 rating and over 5 million downloads on the Play store. If you need the quickest and easiest tool to download the posts, their captions, or their hashtags. Save Reposter is made precisely for this purpose.
Save Resposter allows quick repost of the whole package, i.e., post and caption, which other apps do not provide. The downloaded photos and videos go directly into the gallery. Just download your favorite photo or video, and the process will be running in the background, and you do not have to worry about anything.
With a one-tap process to change between Insta and Save Reposter also vice versa, the transition is fast and smooth.
Features of Save Reposter
Here are some noteworthy features of Save Reposter for Instagram:
- No login required
- Gives you the option to view the downloaded Instagram content in the phone’s gallery
- Provides an additional feature to copy the hashtags or description without hashtags from the post
How to Use Save Reposter to Download Instagram Photos and Videos
- Click on the “Share URL” option on Instagram.
- Either paste URL in the Save Reposter app or a more straightforward method is to click on the Saver icon that will appear in the notification bar.
- Select between downloading the image, video, or copy the text and hashtag.
Quick Save
Ever wanted to create a good Instagram collection comprised of posts you love? Quick Save does it for you, one of the fastest photo downloader apps out there.
Unlike other apps that only provide the functionality of downloading a single post, Quick Save gives you the feature to make that nine grid images for Instagram, or you can also photo-split with just a button click on the spot.
Quick Save also comes with the technology to edit your favorite picture or videos with different types of colors, filters on the spot so you share those edited post directly to Instagram.
Features of Quick Save
Highlighted below are the features of Quick Save for Android:
- No login required
- Provides an in-built feature that lets you edit photo or videos with different color filters
- Provides additional feature to make a 9-grid image (for Instagram)
- Gives you the option to share pictures through the Quick Save app on various social media platforms
How to Use Quick Save to Quickly Save Instagram Photos and Videos
- Open Quick Save and minimize it.
- Open Instagram and look for pictures or videos you want to download and click on “Copy Share URL.”
- Open Quick Save, and there will be a list of images and videos you like, click download on any of the ones you want.
FastSave for Instagram
Arguably one of the best third-party apps as a downloader for Instagram, Fast Save, has been downloaded more than 10 million times on the Play Store. Its features include saving multiple photos and videos at once, saved stories appear in the notification bar above for quick access, long press on the saved photo and video to get information of the original user.
To top it off, it has a fast download speed to get you off and running. The Fast Save app is well designed. It has a minimal yet beautiful UI, which makes the overall user experience pleasant. The app allows you to Repost, Share, Delete photos, and videos from Fast the app directly. Furthermore, you can hide all of these photos within the app’s Secret locker feature.
Features of Fast Save
Here are all the features of Fast Save for Android:
- No login required
- Automatically saves photos and Videos
- Downloaded images or videos do not contain any watermarks
- Easy sharing of saved pictures and videos on social media platforms (through the app)
- Provides a Secret Locker to hide your saved photos and videos
- Provides details about the user by long pressing on the saved picture or video
How to Use Fast Save to Download Instagram Videos and Photos?
- Open Fast Save, toggle the “Fast Save Service” option and then click the “Open Instagram” button below the Fast Save service option.
- Open Instagram and find your desired picture or video.
- Click on “Copy Share URL,” and the download will start automatically (progress is shown in the status bar).
Video Downloader for Instagram
With over 50 million downloads and an extremely impressive 4.7 rating, this app sets a benchmark for every other app like this to follow. Video Downloader for Instagram lets you download and repost videos and images from Instagram.
With just three steps, you can download videos from Instagram. Do you remember those cool IGTV videos on Instagram? Well, you can download them as well with this app. The saved content goes directly into a folder in your gallery for further access.
Another unique feature is that this app lets you copy tags from Instagram, hence giving another outlook to the reposts we all wanted to do. Furthermore, you can share your favorite videos and images and repost them directly to Instagram.
Features of Video Downloader for Instagram
- Provides a unique option to download IGTV videos
- Saves downloaded photos and videos in your phone’s gallery
- No login required
How to Use Video Downloader for Instagram?
- Open Instagram and copy the URL of the post you want to download.
- Open the Video Downloader app and press the paste URL button.
- The app will automatically paste the link which you copied earlier in the Instagram app.
- Downloading of the photo or video will automatically start, which you can view in your File manager app.
Repost for Instagram
We all have those favorite Instagram artists we follow, right? And time after time, we want to share the amazing content they produce, and when we share those posts, we want others to admire the creators of the content.
Repost for Instagram allows precisely that and much more with the option to download photos and videos with ease and without any hassle. You can download photos and videos with the watermark, so if you want to share it with others, while it also downloads with no watermark just like other apps.
Repost for Instagram also supports the reposting of pictures and videos with the original caption, therefore copying the caption or remembering is negated, and more of your effort can be put into/ the post itself. The app receives regular updates and is strongly backed up by its developers. For instance, the app’s Android 10 version was out before its competitors.
Features of Repost for Instagram
- Gives you the option to add watermark
- Enables you to repost with a caption
- No login required
How to Use Repost for Instagram to Save Photos and Videos?
- Open the Instagram app and find the picture you want to download.
- Tap on those three dots and then tap on “Copy Link or Share.”
- Open Repost for Instagram and paste the link there.
- The download of that photo or video will start.
- Lastly, enjoy as you repost the picture and video with the original caption.
Regrann
Regrann is a popular app on the Playstore with over 5 million downloads and an impressive 4.7 rating. It’s an easy to use photo downloader app and has a simple 3-step process to download posts, and we have shared those steps below.
Regrann is a single-screen interface with pop up which contains a download button. Just click it to download your desired post. The pictures and videos will be saved in the Instagram folder.
A free photo downloader that doesn’t require you to log in to save those authentic posts. Speaking of authentic posts, Regrann also gives the option to repost those posts you want from that single-screen interface. All of this can be achieved with a few simple steps without leaving Instagram. The only negative aspect of this app is that it includes in-app purchases.
Features of Regrann
- Does not require you to leave Instagram
- No login required
- Gives you the option to add watermarks when you repost (for crediting the owner)
- Gives you the option to add signatures hen you repost
How to Use Regrann to Save Instagram Photos and Videos?
After going through the initial set-up of the app, please follow these steps:
- Open Instagram and select the picture or video you want to download.
- Then tap on the 3-dot option on the top right side of the post and select the ‘Copy Link’ option.
- Go back to the app (Regrann), and a preview of the image or video will appear.
- Tap the ‘Save’ option on the bottom left side of the screen. The app will instantly download the photo/video on your phone.
Repost IG (InsTake)
With an impressive 4.9 rating and over 5 million downloads, the app satisfies its user base. A 100% fee and a super-fast downloader for Instagram photos and videos, InsTake, allows for super-fast downloading with their multi-thread tech, which is USP considering other great apps do not offer. Supports download of all HD videos and photos and saves them in the gallery.
InsTake has a built-in video player that can be used to play videos offline, also a built-in album for viewing photos offline as well. This app supports the copy link, share, rename, repost for photos and videos downloaded, so you customize the posts (reposts) as much as you want.
To make reposting even better, you can copy hashtags and the captions through this app. Moreover, this app takes less space as compared to other similar apps.
Features of Repost IG InsTake
- No login required
- Built-in video player
- Gives you the option to copy hashtags or captions
How to Use Repost IG InsTake to Download Pictures and Videos from Instagram?
A unique 2-step downloading process that makes it even more, more comfortable to download as many posts as you want.
- First Method – Open Instagram and click on the “Share Link” of the post you want to download. Then select InsTake Downloader to share. That’s it! The post is already downloaded.
- Second Method – Open Instagram and click on the “Copy Link” of the post you want to download. Then open InsTake Downloader and your post have been downloaded.
Insta Download by ZN Studio
Insta Download by ZN Studio is another useful free app, has no login requirement, and provides easy (2 steps) to download photos and videos. This app downloads photos and videos by using the link of the selected photo or video.
A unique feature that Insta Download gives to the users is that you can use this app to easily explore the files shared from your Instagram to Facebook or Twitter.
Features of Insta Download
- Easy sharing options of downloaded photos or videos on Facebook and Twitter
- No login required
How to Download Instagram Photos and Videos with Insta Download?
- Open Instagram and copy the link of the post you want to download.
- Open Insta Save, paste the link in the given box and tap “Check URL” this verifies if the link is authentic.
- Once the link is confirmed, you will have three options on the screen “Save Image,” “Save video,” and “Repost,” click on the one you desire, and it will be done.
Story Saver
So we have talked a lot about downloading photos and videos, but there is one more important feature, perhaps the most essential feature that we have not talked about, and that is Instagram stories. Due to their increasing popularity and wide-scale use, some third-party apps now also enable you to download Insta Stories. With over 10 million downloads and respectable 4.6 ratings, Story Saver surely deserves mention.
Although the app is free, however, it does require login. Thankfully, that has been made easy with just one click login via Facebook. Now you can download the photos and videos people upload in their stories as much as you want. Along with this, you can save these posts locally on your device, share the posts on Facebook and Twitter if you wish.
Features of Story Saver
- Ability to log in with Facebook or Instagram for registration
- Gives you the option to download Insta stories
- Various options to explore, delete or share stories on Facebook or Twitter
How to Download Instagram Stories with Story Saver?
- Open Story Saver app and sign in with your Instagram or Facebook account.
- Now, all you have to do is search for the profile whose stories you want to download.
- Find the story and tap on it get the options.
- Tap on one of the three “Repost,” “Save,” and “Share” options to get your desired outcome.
Dinsta.com
So far, we have covered all of the aspects of downloading your favorite photos and videos from Instagram on Android. However, have you ever wondered how we could download photos and videos from Instagram when we are logged on a PC?
So far, the only way is to log in on Instagram on Android, download one of the apps mentioned above and download the post. That is a very long and effort taking way, at least that’s what people who made Dinsta thought.
Dinsta is a website made specifically to cater to needs like this, and it is simple to use. Download videos and photos directly from your PC with no signup issues, everything free, and quick to get things going.
How to Save Photos and Videos from Instagram with Dinsta?
- Open the Instagram post you want to download and copy the link in the URL.
- Open Dinsta and paste the link, as shown above.
- Lastly, click go, and the post will appear with a download button. Just click it to download the post on your PC, and that’s about it.
You can visit the web app by following this link.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidPrivacy Policy for bestforandroid.com.
If you require any more information or have any questions about our privacy policy, please feel free to contact us by email at [email protected](dot)com.
At bestforandroid.com., the privacy of our visitors is of extreme importance to us. This privacy policy document outlines the types of personal information is received and collected by bestforandroid.com. and how it is used.
Log Files
Like many other Web sites, bestforandroid.com. makes use of log files. The information inside the log files includes internet protocol ( IP ) addresses, type of browser, Internet Service Provider ( ISP ), date/time stamp, referring/exit pages, and number of clicks to analyze trends, administer the site, track users movement around the site, and gather demographic information. IP addresses, and other such information are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable.
Cookies and Web Beacons
bestforandroid.com. does use cookies to store information about visitors preferences, record user-specific information on which pages the user access or visit, customize Web page content based on visitors browser type or other information that the visitor sends via their browser.
DoubleClick DART Cookie
.:: Google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on bestforandroid.com..
.:: Google’s use of the DART cookie enables it to serve ads to your users based on their visit to bestforandroid.com. and other sites on the Internet.
.:: Users may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the Google ad and content network privacy policy at the following URL – http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.html
- Some of our advertising partners may use cookies and web beacons on our site. Our advertising partners include …….
Google Adsense
These third-party ad servers or ad networks use technology to the advertisements and links that appear on bestforandroid.com. send directly to your browsers. They automatically receive your IP address when this occurs. Other technologies ( such as cookies, JavaScript, or Web Beacons ) may also be used by the third-party ad networks to measure the effectiveness of their advertisements and / or to personalize the advertising content that you see.
bestforandroid.com. has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers.
You should consult the respective privacy policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information on their practices as well as for instructions about how to opt-out of certain practices. bestforandroid.com.’s privacy policy does not apply to, and we cannot control the activities of, such other advertisers or web sites.
If you wish to disable cookies, you may do so through your individual browser options. More detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers can be found at the browsers’ respective websites.Site Feedback - Best Android Forum - Get Solutions & Fixes to Android ProblemsSpotify is the biggest name in the music streaming service. There are millions of tracks and podcasts on Spotify. With Spotify, it’s easy to find the right music or podcast for every moment on your phone, tablet, computer and more. Whether you’re at home or working out, the right music or podcast is always at your fingertips.
As you may know, Spotify offers three types of plans - Free, Premium and Family. One of the biggest benefits of Spotify Premium subscription is its ability to download songs from Spotify offline. Specifically, by paying $9.99 a month, you are able to download and save any music from Spotify, including single track, album, or playlists onto your computer or mobile devices like Android or iOS for offline listening.
So, how can you download songs from Spotify? In this article, you’ll learn how to download music from Spotify to computer and phone with Spotify Premium subscription, as well as the best alternative way to really download songs from Spotify, no matter you’re a Free or Premium subscriber.
Before you get started, you’ll need to download TunesKit Spotify Music Converter in advance.
Step 1 Add Spotify songs to TunesKit
Once you open TunesKit Music Converter for Spotify, you got two options to add Spotify songs to the software. The first method is that you can directly drag an artist, an entire album or a playlist from Spotify and drop these files onto the conversion screen of TunesKit. In the other way, you can paste the link of the Spotify songs or albums to the search bar. Then the music tracks will be loaded automatically to the converter.
Step 2 Set MP3 as output format
The default output format of TunesKit Spotify MP3 Converter is set as MP3. Anyway, you can simply click the menu bar and choose ’ Preferences ’ > ’ Convert ’ to set the output settings manually. Here you can adjust the bit rate, channel, sample rate, etc. all according to your own needs. If you want the converted songs to be classified by albums or artists, remember to click the option of ‘Archive output tracks by’.
Step 3 Save Spotify songs to MP3
Now simply click ’ Convert ’ button at the bottom right of TunesKit window and the program will start to convert your Spotify tracks to MP3 format at 5× speed. If you want to convert the Spotify songs in stable mode, you are suggested to choose the 1× speed in ‘Preferences’ before conversion. Once the songs are converted, you’ll achieve Spotify to MP3. Then it’s up to you to transfer those Spotify songs to any MP3 player for offline listening.BestForAndroid is an independent provider of information about Android Phones/tablets & Technology around smartphones. We are a team of passionate writers working from across the globe. Based in Islamabad, Pakistan the BestForAndroid website is owned and operated the company named BestiumPro LLC and is not affiliated with Android or Google in any way.
BestForAndroid is rapidly becoming the Internet’s top site for Android users. Only three years after its premiere, BestForAndroid is receiving over three million page hits per month.
Our Mission
Every piece of content published on our blog is aimed to help our readers in the best possible way. Our purpose is to make life easier for people by giving them the easiest possible solution for their tech problems.
Our Team
Our Team consists of a highly competent and diverse range of people with different backgrounds & geography.
Muhammed Farzan Hussain
Chief Editor – [email protected]
A passionate blogger as well as a tech and gadget enthusiast with over a decade of experience in creating well-researched and engaging content on a wide range of topics. You will mostly find him writing blog posts, tinkering with gadgets, capturing photos, and watching tech videos. He manages the content moderation for this site.
Akhil G
Writer – [email protected]
An experienced and recognized tech writer and journalist. I have an experience of over 6 years in the field of journalism and web content writing. I have received Top Blogger Award – 2016 from IndiBlogger, Google Hall Of Fame Award from Google Inc., Golden Blogger of The Year Award from ShowMyContent by Contentcastling, and the Youth Icon of the Year Award by the Government of Kerala.
Tanwirul Hasan
News Writer – [email protected]
Tanwirul has studied law, but he finds his forte in tech writing. The first thing for him to do is rummage through the web to catch all the news and rumors on a variety of gadgets. Off and on, he is also a cricket buff and a permanent Rahul Dravid fan. He finds out time even in the busiest hours to pen some lines that others call poetry.
Abdul Wahab
Writer – [email protected]
A tech-enthusiast by nature, He writes, reads and watches tech 24/7 and is passionate about writing help guides and blogs.
Seerat Qamar
Writer – [email protected]
I am an eternal optimist, a dreamer, and a team leader, a driver who follows her intuition first, but listen to everyone’s idea and inspire everyone to do whatever they want to do if they have a passion for it and what inspires them.
Jowaria Sohail
Forum Moderator – [email protected]
Jowaria works as a moderator for the Android forum and manages the APK section on the site. She is a tech enthusiast working in the field for over three years.
Shayan Hussain
Forum Moderator – [email protected]
Shayan manages the forum to keep it useful and authentic by actively engaging and helping users as soon as possible.
Other than these people our team consist of Manager, developer, designer and digital marketer who work together to make all this possible,Galaxy J3 - contact name does not display on incoming calls, starting a few days ago. Software is current - no updates pending.
Try install Truecaller. It can help you show name from all unknown callers.
Thanks, will try it!
Truecaller is the best app for incoming calls contact display…
Truecaller es good option, it is trueFinding the right apps to help you keep your productivity at the peak level is the key to accomplishing your targets in a timely manner. And we know everyone measures productivity in their own personal way, which brings us to the fact – what’s best for one could be a complete junk for the other.
So in an attempt to keep everything well balanced and make this extensive list of best productivity apps meaningful for everyone, we have divided this list into over fourteen section and each section includes up to three best apps.
The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing. – Walt Disney
Best Productivity Apps For Android
- To-do Managment Apps
- Notes Taking Apps
- Cloud Storage Apps
- Team Communication Apps
- Task Automation Apps
- Time Managment Apps
- Addiction Stoping Apps
- Distractions Stopping Apps
- Productivity Increasing Apps
- Password Managment Apps
- Productive Email Apps
- Office Work Apps
- Document Apps
- Remote Files Access
To-do Lists, Task & Activity Manager
1. Wunderlist
Wunderlist is a project planner and to-do list organizer where you can quickly create a list of reminders, tasks, places you want to visit, things you need to purchase. The app is beautifully designed with greater flexibility to add as much detail as you want to each of your task including due date and attachments.
It offers you the ability to share the plans as well as the option to collaborate with friends, colleagues, family on a mutual task in real-time. And to make sure you can access all those data from anywhere, it can instantly sync across all of your devices including smartphone, tablet, and computer.
- Organize to-do lists and tasks in folders.
- Attach photos, presentations, files to any of your task.
- Cross platform compatibility.
- Arrange tasks according to the deadline or in alphabetical order.
- Wunderlist widget might not update sometimes.
- Requires you to re-sort list/readjust arrangement after adding a new task.
2. Any.do
Any.do is an emerging to-do list manager app for Android while keeping in mind the ease of use, maximum practicality as well as the ultimate flexibility to organize your day-to-day schedule, set reminders, along with the ability to watch over all the current tasks that are on your today list.
What’s good about Any.do is in case if you were unable to complete any task on a due date then it will automatically be rolled down to the following day to make sure you won’t miss it. Once your task is completed, you can mark as done using a swipe gesture. You can even reorganize your tasks using the intuitive drag and drop.
- Reliable reminder and notification system, visually appealing and user-friendly design.
- Cross platform compatibility along with the option to sync tasks, attachments, and notes.
- Active support and development team that will help you fix any issue as soon as possible.
- Lacks calendar integration with Google Calendar (but new integration options are in works).
- Tasks with recurring reminders will require you to purchase the premium version.
3. Trello
Trello is an intuitive and flexible task organizer app for Android that is quite different from Wunderlist and Any.do. The card and board styled design of the app will help you gain perspective of the entire task list in just a single glance and will let you see a real-time status of all the tasks, whether they are done or needs to be completed.
Whether you are managing a project with your business team or planning a vacation with your family, this app will help you collaborate with them without any hassle. And with the reliable notification system, Trello will keep you updated with the progress of each and every task. You can even leave comments on the task along with the ability to add attachments and links.
- Freely organize all of your projects and tasks along with the option to collaborate with your coworkers.
- Support for Android Wear allows you to create cards and reply to comments.
- Cross platform support to enhance productivity.
- Offline capability is missing, which sometimes results in infrequent syncing and restricts from editing while there’s no Internet connectivity.
- Widget and app are not synced in real-time and requires manual refresh.
- Bugs and stability issues make Trello unreliable at times.
Note-taking Apps To Stay Organized
You can’t remember everything you hear no matter how much important it is unless you are highly intelligent, so why not keep note of every important thing that matter.
1. OneNote by Microsoft
Microsoft OneNote is a cross-platform app that gives you the ability to note down anything in your very own digital notebook. And specifically for those of you who have a smartphone or tablet with pen support, the things will be a lot easier for you as you can draw, label, type, even extract data from the Internet and save it as your note.
You can also note down your tasks in a list format and then check them off one by one as you go through them. If you are managing a team project, you can then collaborate with your teammates from within the OneNote app. And with the new hovering badge, similar to the Facebook Messenger chat heads, option to add a new note is just a tap away.
- User interface is designed in such a way that it will give you a feeling of having a physical 3-ring binder, which supports tags and labels.
- OneNote let you access your notes even when you are offline.
- Support for Android Wear brings access to the recent notes along with an option to quickly record an audio note.
- Intermittent syncing makes it harder to work on the notes.
- OneNote Android app is unreliable on some devices, which leads to unexpected crash and force close.
2. Evernote
Evernote is an outstanding note-taking app that is fully compatible with other platforms including Windows, Mac, and iOS so that you can seamlessly access and work on your projects while keeping track of your notes. The app will help you effectively organize your projects where you can collect and capture ideas and work on them alone or with a team.
If you are a businessperson then you need to opt for paid version, i.e. Evernote Plus for $34.99/year with 1GB monthly upload limit or Evernote Premium for $69.99/year with 10GB monthly upload limit. Paid subscriptions will allow you to sync your notes with unlimited devices as well as the ability to access your notes and notebooks offline. The free account gives you about 60MB upload limit.
- Full-featured note-taking app with seamless sync capability and cross-platform support.
- Option to take notes in different formats including text, photos, video, audio, sketch, web clipping.
- Businesses can maximize productivity by assigning a project to multiple team members and stay updated on the status.
- Free plan is downgraded, which removed essential features and forced limitations like sync between two devices only and no offline support.
- Pricing model for paid plans might be costly for an individual or a startup.
- The app consumes a lot of space on Android device and sometimes become laggy.
3. Google Keep
Unlike Evernote and OneNote, Google Keep gives you an incredibly fast and simplified interface to help you organize all the notes whether they are work-related or personal. You can quickly capture an idea or add reminders in a form of photo, text, web links, checklist, or voice (that converts your speech to text).
Use color and labels to quickly organize notes and the integrated search helps you find them later. To make sure everything is accessible from any device without limitation, Google Keep seamlessly syncs with Google Drive so you can concentrate on productivity. You can even add location-based reminders that will pop-up whenever you are nearby that location.
- Quickly add reminders, notes, or capture ideas and share it with your friends or family.
- Notes are always within your reach, accessible everywhere on any device including Android Wear.
- Natively integrated with every other Google services.
- Option to pin important notes so they remain at the top.
- Missing undo/redo function, in case you deleted something accidentally while editing.
- Advanced text formatting options are not available, like bullets, bold, italic, underline.
Time Management
Do you want to complete all those tasks you have scheduled in your routine planner? Did you ever wonder why you were unable to accomplish them? Because you plan unhealthy routines. Don’t worry. Now you can master your routine and become proficient at time management which will increase your effectiveness, efficiency & productivity. All with the help of apps mentioned below.
1. TimeTune
TimeTune is a routine schedule planner app that is designed to help you boost your productivity by optimizing your time, creating good habits, and accomplish everything in your daily schedule. The user interface is stunningly crafted that gives you several personalization possibilities. Usage of custom tags and individually customizable notification assist you in identifying your schedule.
The app has different time management options specifically designed for those who value their time, want to squeeze every available minute, and then use it to accomplish tasks. The app can help you conveniently design routines based on daily or weekly basis along with the finest flexibility. You can observe your routine statistics to analyze your performance and detect time leaks.
- TimeTune will assist you with tweaking your time so you can use it to your advantage.
- Routine statistics to help you analyze and improve your time distribution as well as find suitable periods to work without interruption.
- Customizable notification reminders (including vibration, popup message, and ringtone) for every task to keep you updated with what needs to be done.
- Some advanced features require a purchase of premium version.
- Lacks countdown timer/reminder to keep you updated with the total time left to complete a task.
2. Doodle
Do you find it hard to schedule meetups or group events? It becomes hectic to plan an event where more than two people are involved and group meetings usually lead to conflicts, which cause postponements and endless communication with everyone. This is where Doodle can help you. It is an easy scheduling app, smartly designed to help find the best possible date and time for the group event while cooperating with your existing schedule.
Using Doodle, you can suggest possible available times and then invite a group of people. The app will let them bid and will send you a notification once the best suitable time for every member is found. You can keep an active track on the current polls right from the app dashboard. Invited members can even have a chat and discussion with other members.
- Doodle makes it possible for you to find convenient date and time to plan a meet up with a group of people, without any schedule conflicts.
- Invited members can participate without installing the app, right from the official website fully optimized for mobile & desktop.
- Effortlessly integrates with calendar apps to detect any possible conflict.
- Advertisements become annoying sometimes.
Productivity Apps
Did you ever notice that a simple 10-15 minutes task sometimes takes an hour to complete? That’s because you get distracted, which leads to procrastination where you lose track of the total time spent and only realize this after completing the task. This is where Pomodoro technique will help you force to stay focused, avoid potential burnout, and get the work done efficiently.
1. ClearFocus
ClearFocus is a time-management and productivity tracker tool for Android that helps you to be more productive while making the most out of your time by keeping you focused on your work and avoid distractions. The material UI is simple and elegant whereas the timer functionality is easily customizable to suit your needs.
With ClearFocus, you can tag a task and then stay focused on completing it for 25 minutes straight. When the timer goes off, take a short break for 5 minutes. It is similar to the Pomodoro technique. But the benefit of this app is it shows you a graphical representation of your working hours to help you keep a track of all your working sessions and how much time you have spent on each task.
- Help you to stay efficient and focused on your task while avoiding unwanted interruptions.
- Graphical representation of the detailed statistics for all your completed work sessions.
- There’s a minor glitch in the statistical data.
2. Brain Focus Productivity Timer
Brain Focus is somewhat similar to ClearFocus but the amount of customization and personalization options available in this app is simply mind-blowing. You can change the duration of working sessions and breaks. Moreover, you can amend the long break trigger and even modify the length of long breaks to best suit your desires.
What’s more interesting is most of the Pomodoro timers does not allow you to pause the session but that’s not the case with Brain Focus as you can easily enable or disable pause/resume option right from the settings. And yes, if you get easily distracted by your smartphone, the app can even disable WiFi and sounds during work sessions.
- Visual representation of productivity and total time spent to help you evaluate, review, and analyze the sessions.
- Keep track of individual working sessions by projects or accomplishments.
- Give you freedom to customize and configure timer for each task.
- Lacks data of pause used during working sessions.
Control Smartphone Addiction
Do you know how much time you have spent on your smartphone today? Which app consumes most of your time?
Here are a couple of apps to help you track down cell phone usage habits and find out where most of your time is spent. This will help you control your digital life, free yourself from the smartphone addiction, and spend that time on achieving your goals. Above all, once you gain control, you will be using your smartphone instead of your smartphone controlling you. 😀
1. BreakFree Cell Phone Addiction
BreakFree is a revolutionary app to help you break free of your smartphone addiction. The app provides you with detailed visual statistical data to show how addicted you are, comes equipped with tools that are smartly designed to encourage you to stay away from your smartphone, and is specially designed to help you stay motivated to spend more time on other tasks.
The app calculates addiction score based on your phone usage statistics that counts the number of times you have unlocked your screen, for how long you have used your phone, and on which apps you have spent most of your time. The statistics allow you to compare weekly and monthly scores. And if you overuse any app then BreakFree gives you a timely notification.
- Monitor your smartphone usage patterns and give you a pleasant notification whenever you are using any specific app for long.
- Option to automatically turn off WiFi, Internet connectivity, and sound during specified time to maintain your focus.
- Provides detailed usage statistics for all the apps you have used, the time you have spent on each app, and the number of times you have launched it.
- User interface is not up to the par, which makes navigation hard.
- The system that calculates total time spent on each app is slightly glitchy.
2. App Usage – Manage/Track Usage
App Usage is designed to help you track and manage your overall smartphone usage. It collects detailed usage info about all the apps that you have used as well as the total time you have spent on each app. The app also records the number of times you have checked your phone. It even gives you a detailed activity history and the timestamp for the apps you have opened.
The graphical representation of collected data can be easily sorted in various order including ascending and descending to help you find which app you used the most. You can also switch between calendar view and bar chart view to better understand your usage stats.
- Get detailed information about your daily app usage and the total duration you have spent on each app.
- Give you an over-use reminder whenever you spend too much time on an app.
- Contains a lot of popup advertisements but it can be removed with the purchase of pro version.
- Lacks option to change the day cycle timing if you follow late-night working hours.
Block Distracting Apps
Have you ever tried to disengage yourself from your smartphone? Do you know how much extra time you will gain every day and how much relaxed you will feel? Blocking apps that require your sudden attention will surely boost your productivity, help you concentrate on your tasks, and get them done at a much quicker pace.
1. OFFTIME – Distraction Free
Offtime is designed to help you maintain a healthy and strong connection with the real world by blocking the apps that consume almost all of your free time, which could have been spent on making new connections or getting some extra work done to be closer to your goals. With the app installed on your Android device, you will be wasting less time on addictive apps like social networking.
The app can even manage your incoming calls and messages with a friendly auto-responder so you can easily reach them when you are free. All you have to do is select the time interval when you don’t want to be disturbed by calls, messages, and distracting apps. Moreover, you can add important contacts and apps in whitelist so that they reach you. This will help you improve self-control too.
- Easily block calls, messages, notifications, distracting apps, and even Internet connection while you are working on an important task/project.
- Whitelist option allows important contacts reach you via text or phone call.
- Tracks your phone and apps usage, warns about excessive usage, and provide you with an in-depth usage analytics.
2. App Block – Stay Focused
If you are trying to control your smartphone addition and want to spend less amount of time on those addicting apps then App Block can help you out. The app is aimed to make it quick and easy to block any particular apps during specified intervals and days of the week, which will help you stay focused on the work you are doing while keeping the distractions out of your life.
The App Block allows you to create multiple entries for different days and specific working hours as well as the apps you want to be blocked. Then you can quickly enable/disable those entries using a toggle key. Now, during the blocking period, if you launch the blocked app then you will see a toast message that it has been blocked along with a number of times you have tried to access it.
- Temporarily block distracting apps for specified time intervals.
- Ability to protect the AppBlock dashboard with a PIN code for an added layer of privacy.
- Free version allows you to block up to five apps, to remove limitation you need to purchase pro version.
Tasks Automation
You may have never heard about task automation but your Android device is so much powerful that you can configure it to perform specific tasks automatically and then it will be executed without you even touching it. Yes, that is possible and you can unleash the true potential of your Android device using the exceptional automation apps mentioned below.
1. IFTTT (If This Then That)
In a nutshell, IFTTT is an absolutely free web-based automation service that enables you to create a sequence of conditional statements called “applets”, which are automatically activated based on the signal/variation originated from any connected web service. For example, a premade recipe that triggers whenever you receive a new email with an attachment in your Gmail account, and then it automatically saves attachments to a folder in Google Drive. Or it can even save popular productivity tips from Reddit’s productivity subforum to your Evernote notebook.
There are millions of premade recipes and you can even create your own, the only limit is your imagination. There are more than four hundred apps that can easily be connected with IFTTT interface including weather, social media services, emails, cloud storage, location, and even your home appliances. An example related to an appliance, it sends you an email or message notification when thermostat’s battery is low.
- Hundreds of apps and services can be connected with IFTTT using the applets and recipes to achieve automation.
- IFTTT applets help you connect your favorite web services together and save time.
- Powerful automation service that is ideal to make those tedious tasks automated.
- Lacks possibility to add multiple IF, AND, OR conditions in the recipes.
2. Tasker
Tasker will help you completely automate all of your Android tasks. As compared to the IFTTT, Tasker is rules and profiles based automation app whereas IFTTT is a web-based tool. The rules can be defined to create specific profiles, and the rules include time, date, event, app, gesture, or even a location. Once the profile has been created, it will wait for any amendment to the rule, which will then trigger the task.
For example, you can create a profile that automatically modifies the screen timeout settings to maximum when you open Kindle app. Or you can create a Tasker profile that disables passcode lock of your Android device when it is connected to the home WiFi network. Apart from these functionalities, there are dozens of Tasker Plugins and one of them even let you connect IFTTT with Tasker to achieve an ultimate automation.
- Powerful app to automate any task on your Android phone or tablet.
- Plugins support to enhance the capabilities of Tasker app.
- The interface and usage are complex for beginner users of Android devices and requires learning to get the most out of the app.
- You may come across a minor glitch or bug, but the development team is active and supportive of fixing it for you.
Cloud Storage Services
The cloud-storage service apps give you online space where you can easily store your documents, PDF files, photos, music, videos, and any other file or data with a flexibility to access them through any smartphone, tablet, computer, or web interface, without any limitation.
1. Dropbox
Dropbox is a rock-solid and dedicated cloud storage provider with simplified and easy to use Android interface. With offline access option, you can keep an offline copy of important files and folders, which will enhance your productivity when you are traveling. Dropbox gives you up to 20GB of free cloud storage space and about 90% of that can be earned by completing small tasks and referring friends to Dropbox.
Do you want more space? Dropbox offers pro plan for individuals @ $9.99/month with 1TB of storage limit. And if you have a team, it’s better to opt for a business plan with unlimited cloud storage, file recovery & versioning, phone support, data protection, and much more for $15/month for each user, which equals to $75/month for five members.
- Cross-platform cloud service with support for every device, along with the secure two-step authentication.
- Built-in passcode feature that allows you to add a layer of security while opening the app.
- Shared folders enable your team members to work with you on the same project, along with change notifications.
- Share large files using a link with anyone, and they can preview and download the file without a Dropbox account.
- Shared links have traffic limitation of 20GB/day, so if your link generates excessive traffic then it will be banned.
- Missing detailed change log or description for modifications/updates by team members in shared files or folders.
2. Google Drive
Google Drive is one of the best cloud storage services available for Android and because it is developed by the Google itself so you can use it as online storage and productivity suite with unified syncing, which also works perfectly as collaborative office suit.
The basic account gives 15GB of free space and this same storage is used across all Google services including Gmail. If you want more storage, Google offers different storage plans at a nominal monthly fee:
…and there are more plans. But, if you are running a business with five or more members then it’ll be better to opt for premium Google Suite Business @ $10 for each user, which gives every user an unlimited cloud storage along with Google Vault. Overall, the business plan will cost $50/month for five members.
- Easily share files and folders with others, and the option to modify the access level to view, edit or comment.
- Option to store selected files as offline for viewing.
- Preview documents and spreadsheets directly in Google Drive.
- Less secure, as there’s no native password protection for the app.
- Syncing is buggy on some devices.
3. Microsoft OneDrive
If you are more dependent on Microsoft products and services then it will be better to opt for Microsoft OneDrive as it is well incorporated with the wide variety of Microsoft services including OneNote, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. This will let you seamlessly work on your projects while keeping a backup of your document synced with every connected device.
OneDrive offers up to 15GB of free cloud storage space for starters but about 70% of that needs to be earned by referring friends. So you can earn up to 10GB free cloud space via referral. If that seems hard to achieve then there is a paid basic storage plan that will give you 50GB storage @ $1.99/month. It is cheap but the storage limit will raise a few eyebrows.
- Easy to use interface along with the cross-platform compatibility.
- Full integration with Microsoft Office suite as well as OneNote.
- Access important files and documents anytime via offline feature.
- App passcode to add a layer of security while opening OneDrive.
- Costly, if you need to upgrade to a paid plan later.
- The basic usage functionalities are not simplified enough.
- App is not reliable to be used on a daily.
Team Communication
Do you know that every day countless numbers of hours are wasted on follow-ups, checking & responding to emails, and switching between different apps just to communicate with the team about project status? This is where the implementation of a team communication solution becomes essential to help members save time, stay productive and focused on getting the real work done.
1. Slack
Slack is one of the most widely used team communication solutions as it is easy to integrate, simple enough to be learned by anyone along with the ability to create dedicated communication channels related to the project. The members can share photos, documents, and files with a simple drag-and-drop interface.
Slack is perfectly compatible with numerous mobile and desktop platforms, can integrate well with third-party services like Google Suite, Twitter, Dropbox, ZenDesk and countless other apps which will help you receive all the notifications and updates in a single place. Moreover, everything shared by the members is indexed and archived so you can search for them anytime.
- Slack is free to try for a team without any time limitation and offers affordable paid plans.
- Sync instantaneously with all your connected devices.
- Notifications settings can be precisely personalized for email, mobile, and desktop.
- Slack free version give 5GB storage space for the team and ceiling to search last 10,000 messages only.
- Sometimes push notifications does not work as expected due to the Internet connectivity issues, making it less reliable.
2. Asana
Asana has a great potential and is powerful enough to help your team complete gigantic projects by letting them split those projects into smaller tasks, which are easier and quicker to accomplish. Those smaller tasks can then be assigned to the team members along with the deadline. Once everything is set up, teammates can then have a conversation within the task and share relevant files or documents.
To keep all the team members updated about their assigned tasks, Asana will send a notification whenever there is something updated along with a graphical chart to help keep visual track of the current progress as well as the deadline. And the best thing is, Asana help you track work even when you are out of Internet connectivity.
- Completely free with unlimited usage for a team of up to 15 members.
- Ability to split huge work into smaller tasks along with the option to distribute it among multiple team members.
- Support for integration with few dozen services let you connect task to different apps and then track progress from within the Asana app.
- Hard to add & manage recurring tasks.
- The interface is slightly difficult to understand making it challenging to navigate around the projects and tasks.
Unified Email Management
When you have more than one email account then it becomes tough to manage them promptly, this is why it is recommended to opt for a unified email apps that offers clean interface and bundle of features along with the option to see all of your email messages in one place.
1. Gmail
Gmail is an official email client designed by Google and comes pre-installed on most of the Android smartphones and tablets as a default mobile email management app. The recent UI improvements and the addition of fresh features like the ability to read and respond to email messages regardless of the Internet connectivity along with the well-organized inbox where messages are automatically sorted into predefined categories for enhanced emailing experience.
The Gmail’s spam filter is smart enough to block spam messages and keep your inbox safe and clutter free from needless messages. Google has also added multiple account support to help users manage accounts from different email providers including Yahoo, Exchange, Microsoft (Outlook/Hotmail/Live), along with the option to add any other IMAP/POP email.
- Simplified UI with unified emailing experience.
- Advanced search option to quickly find any email message.
- Lack of advanced emailing options might make it inflexible for some users.
- Absence of a separate section to view all unread messages in one place.
2. Email TypeApp
TypeApp is a beautifully designed email managing app for Android that provides a clutter-free user interface along with the ability to easily manage and navigate around multiple email accounts right from the home screen. There are numerous features to help boost email management skills like swipe gestures to quickly mark an email as read or delete it, apply bulk actions to emails, smart mailbox, and filtrations automatically categorizes emails into predefined groups.
The best feature of TypeApp is the ability to snooze emails, which can be configured to send reminder alert at later date or time. Moreover, the appearance customization options allow you to freely customize the menu according to your personal liking. And the app supports almost every email service provider including Gmail, Yahoo, AOL, iCloud, Outlook (Hotmail), exchange accounts.
- Reliable, efficient, versatile, easy to configure, and provides premium functionalities along with the widget support.
- Personalizable push notification alert, quiet hours, and snooze alert for each email account.
- Native mobile printing support.
- Compatible with Android Wear to intelligently check emails on the go.
- Might get slow and laggy on some Android devices.
All-In-One Office Suite & PDF Manager
All-in-one mobile office suite and PDF manager is one of the most essential apps for Android smartphone and tablet devices. These apps are so powerful that they enable you to view, edit, and share almost any file type related to office including documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and PDFs.
1. WPS Office and PDF
WPS Office + PDF, previously known as Kingsoft Office, is the most prevalent and reliable office suite ever designed for Android mobile devices. No matter where you are, you can create amazing documents, complete your presentations, work on spreadsheets, view/read PDF files and convert office files to PDF without any limitation.
The fully featured WPS Office app is available for download for free but it is ads supported which might bother some users but the developers have recently added an option to opt for paid version and remove advertisements. However, if you don’t have any issue with occasional ads then free version is best for office tasks.
- Quick and easy to view, edit, and share office documents anywhere anytime without any restriction.
- Multi-window/split screen support let you manage multiple tasks at the same time.
- Ability to view and edit any Microsoft Office file format.
- Intrusive ads but can be removed via in-app purchases.
- Recent update has increased the overall file size of the app.
2. OfficeSuite
OfficeSuite + PDF Editor is a lot more than just an office app. It has the capability to let you open all the major office file types including PDFs, documents, spreadsheets, presentations whether they are located on your device or in a network location. Moreover, all the major cloud services are well integrated into the app. And with the built-in sync functionality, all of your files and documents are synced with all of your connected devices.
The best thing about MobiSystems OfficeSuite is the UI, which is designed in such a way that it replicates the desktop version to make it easier to work on your documents rather than spending the time to search for the tools. The app is powered by advanced editing functionalities, spell checker, dictionary along with the ability to export and edit PDF files.
- Feature-rich mobile office suite with the ability to edit and view Word, PowerPoint, and Excel documents as well as the option to convert PDF files.
- Syncs with all of your connected Android devices so that you can work seamlessly anywhere.
- Free version does not include all the advanced editing functionalities.
- Contains interfering advertisements, which can be removed with OfficeSuite Pro.
Document/PDF Scanner
While working on several projects we come across printed documents, memos, receipts, handwritten notes, business cards, or information on boards, all of which are time-consuming if you start inputting them as a note on mobile for later reference. This is where text scanner apps become helpful to let you quickly save a digital OCR copy of every physical document and stay organized.
1. Office Lens
With Office Lens, you can accessible capture pictures of notes/text on whiteboard and documents. And using the advanced transformation functionalities of the app, you can then convert those pictures into a readable document format.
The Office Lens app is better than your camera app because it has the capability to capture perfect photos and then allows you to enhance it to make them clear, readable, and free from shadows. Furthermore, you can convert those photos to Word, PowerPoint, or PDF document as well as save them on a cloud storage for quick sharing.
- Variety of modes to capture text including the photo, handwritten note, business card, document, whiteboard.
- Built-in review and editing options let you optimize captured picture before saving it to your device.
- Best for extracting name and contact info from business cards.
- Lacks batch mode, so there is no option to scan multiple pages/documents for quick digital storage.
2. Tiny Scanner
With Tiny Scanner, you can scan and save anything anywhere in finest quality without any limitation. All you really need to have is your Android smartphone and TinyScanner app installed, which will convert your phone into a portable digital scanner.
You can quickly scan multiple documents, enhance them, save them as an editable document file, and then share that document with anyone, all from within the app. And using the simplified management tool, you can save, sort, and even password-protect your documents. You might need to purchase premium version for $4.99 to get the most out of the app and it is worth every single penny.
- Quickly scan multiple documents, memos, receipts, and even photos.
- Password-protects your confidential documents and PDF files.
- Store your documents on your device, cloud storage, or share them via email.
- Limited scans and options with the free version, you need to purchase pro version.
Password Manager
Considering the variety of social media services, online shopping accounts, Internet banking, and the quantity of email accounts we possess these days, having a unique and strong password for each one of them is paramount for security. But then, on the other hand, it becomes hard for us to remember them all. This is where highly secured password manager apps will help you out.
1. LastPass Password Manager
LastPass is an exceptional password manager for desktop along with an outstanding support for mobile devices. The app not only fulfills the role of password manager, but it is also a strong password generator, built-in web browser, auto-fill username and passwords, as well as the capability to let you store secure notes. You only need to have one LastPass account, which then syncs seamlessly with desktop and mobile.
The app can detect and save passwords for the apps installed on your device so you won’t even need to remember any password. To make sure no one gains unwanted access to your password vault, the app is protected with an additional layer of PIN code security that is required every time you open the app. LastPass Premium provides the option to sync with unlimited devices, 1GB encrypted file storage, and family password sharing for just $12/year.
- Feature-rich password manager, simplified material UI with easy to use options.
- Ability to instantly add any website info or notes and keep them secure with bank-level, AES 256-bit encryption.
- Option to log in to the apps without typing a single letter.
- App autofill sometimes not works on slow or older Android devices.
2. Dashlane
If you are looking for a free password manager for your Android devices then Dashlane Password Manager and Mobile Wallet will be the best choice as the app is designed to make it simple for you to securely and safely keep your login credentials in the password vault equipped with unparalleled AES-256 security encryption.
Dashlane’s user interface is so simplified that anyone can understand how to manage and edit stored passwords and credentials. The app comes integrated with a secure web browser and Secure Notes section where you can store security codes, confidential info, and other data. You can seamlessly sync with other devices and create secure account backup but you need to opt for Dashlane Premium for $39.99/year.
- Cross-platform password manager service with almost every required feature without any subscription charges.
- AES-256 bit encryption for every data and information stored on Dashlane.
- Dashlane Premium is quite expensive.
Remotely Access Your Personal Devices
Access your files from your Laptop and office on the Go with these apps
1. TeamViewer
TeamViewer is a free remote control app for Android that allows you to remotely control computers, servers, or any other mobile device right through your mobile device as well as transfer files or data between devices remotely no matter where you are, even when you are traveling. All you need to have is a consistent Internet connectivity.
TeamViewer is widely known for providing secure, fast, and stress-free remote access to billions of users and companies around the world. The interface is intuitive and provides gesture support for simplified usage experience. The app even allows you to have a high-definition voice and video communication along with 256-bit session encoding for highest security.
- Flawlessly gain remote access to and control Windows, Mac OS, Linux based computers as well as Android and Windows 10 based mobile devices.
- Capability to transfer files in both directions.
- Push notifications for chat messages.
- Sometimes the app gives connection error due to intermittent Internet connection.
2. Chrome Remote Desktop
Similar to TeamViewer app we discussed above, Chrome Remote Desktop app also let you securely access your computer from your Android device. Your desktop must need to have Chrome web browser as well as the Chrome Remote Desktop app installed to accept the remote connection request. And both devices must need to be logged in to the same account.
However, if you compare it with TeamViewer then you will find some limitations. Chrome Remote Desktop only allows you to connect to the desktop and not to another Android device. But performance wise, Chrome Remote Desktop is a lot more powerful and reliable.
- The remote desktop app is so much powerful that it can mirror the desktop on your Android device.
- The interface is modestly designed to make it easy for anyone to enjoy remote desktop capabilities.
- Lack many basic functionalities, which make the app less useful for advanced users.
Conclusion
We all are well aware that only downloading and installing these apps on our smartphone will not automatically boost our productivity. We need to make a habit of using these apps consistently to get the most out of our daily schedule, which will help us get some real work done without spending an enormous amount of time.
Share your opinion with us know in the comments down below about the apps you have tried from our list. And how you are going to use them to increase productivity? 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidWe all are very well aware of the fact that Android is the only mobile operating system that gives us the maximum choices when it comes to the customizability.
And that is exactly the reason why different Android based smartphone companies go out of their way to release their very own custom-tailored user interface for their devices.
The best example for that is “TouchWiz” which is developed by Samsung and being widely used on smartphones and tablets manufactured by Samsung since 2010 till date. Regardless of its popularity and the eye-catching smart features being offered by the Samsung TouchWiz, the lack of customization possibilities may not interest everyone. But, as we have already mentioned in the beginning, Android gives you the complete freedom to modify the interface and make the experience according to your personal liking.
This brings us to the third-party Android launcher, which is undoubtedly the easiest way to personalize your Android device. And not only customize, but these launchers also come bundled with powerful and well-designed customization features to help you further enhance your familiarity with your Android device.
To help you find the best and lightest 3rd-party launchers for Android, we have prepared a list of handpicked home screen replacement apps that are lightweight, require the least amount of space, and work on every Android device regardless of its specifications.
1. Holo Launcher
|Size:||1.66 MB.|
|Requirement:||Android 4.1 Jelly Bean and above.|
The Holo Launcher is based on the Android 6.0 Marshmallow stock interface, which provides you a complete material design along with a number of customizability and modification preferences.
And above all, Holo Launcher is a lightweight launcher that consumes less amount of RAM, which leaves enough free memory for other apps on your phone.
You can change the total number of desktop pages (up to nine pages) as well as the grid sizes (up to 10 x 10).
You can make the dock scrollable by adding up to three pages, and each dock page supports seven apps/folders.
The icons and labels for both, app shortcuts as well as the folders, can be customized with just a simple ‘tap and hold’ gesture so that you can better organize your Android home screen UI.
There is even a support for gestures, which means you can assign a ‘swipe up’ or ‘swipe down’ gesture to launch the specific app right from the home screen.
These simple modifications and features will let you cut down the number of app shortcuts visible on your Android desktop while making your phone work faster as compared to the stock launcher.
- Light, efficient, and powerful launcher with several customizable options.
- Add up to nine pages to your home screen.
- Support gestures.
- Scrollable dock with support for up to three pages and seven shortcut icons.
- Some bugs and stability issues, and needs some fixing.
2. Smart Launcher 3
|Size:||3.65 MB.|
|Requirement:||Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and above.|
Smart Launcher 3 is a fast, intuitive, simple, and light launcher that is fully compatible with almost all the Android phones, whether it is a newly released device or an old one with minimal memory and processing power.
And unlike most of the other popular Android launchers available on the Google Play Store, Smart Launcher 3 (SL3) is not built on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP).
The launcher has the lowest system requirements, tapping an insignificant amount of stress on your device’s battery power, memory usage, and processor.
Which also leaves enough unused resources so that you can easily run other important apps on your phone.
The search bar is conveniently located on the home screen that will allow you to perform quick web search as well as enable you to search for apps and contacts located within your device.
The launcher is vastly customizable and personalizable thanks to the availability of loads of icon packs, themes, and lock screens.
Furthermore, the development team has added compatibility for both, portrait mode and landscape mode to enhance accessibility. Along with the ability to hide apps from the app drawer as well as password protection.
- Come as a base launcher app to provide maximum minimalism, but can be customized by downloading an additional plugin for personalization.
- Compatible with Android phones and tablet devices, and works in portrait and landscape mode.
- Can run on almost any Android device, and requires minimal Android system resources.
- You can unleash the true ad-free potential of this powerful and highly customizable launcher by purchasing pro version for $4.49.
- Multiple home screen widgets not supported.
- Icon notification feature may malfunction on some Android devices.
- Personalized fonts not supported.
3. Zero Launcher
|Size:||4.04 MB.|
|Requirement:||Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and above.|
Zero Launcher is a lightweight, small in size, consumes less space, and fast in performance. The launcher comes with a variety of free HD live wallpapers and themes to help you better personalize your Android phone and tablet.
Zero Launcher is smartly designed so that users with limited RAM Android devices can easily download, install, and run the launcher without worry about memory hogging.
And because it works flawlessly while leaving less footprint on the memory, which also saves battery in a longer run.
The launcher provides you with a number of customization possibilities including folder management, intelligent apps arrangement, and categorization, built-in search bar to let you search for emails, apps, and messages stored on your device.
Apart from providing you with the ability to change the wallpaper of your Android home screen, you can even change the lock screen wallpaper to further modify your Android device.
Other features of the launcher include support for custom gestures, home screen weather, and clock widgets, security function to let you lock app and password protection for folders.
- Change or modify the wallpapers, themes, fonts, and icons.
- Awesome 3D transitional and smooth scroll effects.
- Gesture support to help you quickly search for the apps.
- Icon size cannot be adjusted.
- Lack of fresh wallpapers and themes, as the app has not been updated since September 2016.
4. Nova Launcher
|Size:||4.44 MB|
|Requirement:||Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and above|
Nova Launcher is one of those Android launchers that offer you some of the best personalization and customization options along with the most advanced performance capabilities as well as easy to use user interface.
With Nova, you can gain a complete control over the home screen of your Android phone and customize it to your will.
The launcher will let you change the layout, select different variations of animations, thousands of icon theme packs for almost every app, and the ability neatly organizes your home screen by creating folders.
The backup and restore functionality let you create a complete backup of all your customizations, which you can even restore on your other Android devices or store it for later in case you need to change your phone.
You can also customize your app and widget drawers using custom tabs for categorization or grouping, custom effects, and vertical & horizontal scrolling options.
Nova offers extra premium features too, like gesture support, unread notification count badge, ad-free launcher, ability to hide apps from the drawer, option to open specific app by swiping icon, shortcuts, or folders. You can avail all of these extras by purchasing Nova Launcher Prime for $5.00.
- One of the lightest, quickest, and performance-driven Android launcher with smooth animations.
- Import your custom layout from any existing launcher to save time.
- Option to backup and restore to save your precious personalization.
- Subgrid positioning offers you higher control over personalization of your home screen.
- If you are using the latest Android 7 Nougat then you might face some compatibility issues.
- App is not updated since May 2016.
5. Hola Launcher
|Size:||4.57 MB|
|Requirement:||Android 2.3.3 Gingerbread and above|
Hola Launcher is a tiny, lightweight, and powerful launcher for Android devices. Apart from being a launcher with themes and wallpapers, it comes bundled with some additional tools to further clean and boost your Android phone.
The additional tools include battery saver, speed booster, power manager, game booster, and battery charging monitor, which makes it a perfect launcher for those who usually install an additional app to avail these power saving and cache cleaning functionalities.
Apart from the usual aspects of the launcher, there is a feature called Hola Shine that takes the launcher to the completely new level, it categorizes your apps in recently opened and frequently used.
You can access Hola Shine by simply swiping from the corner of your phone screen, and it will give you an easy access to all your apps. Moreover, the toolbox category will allow you to have an easy access to the tools like a flashlight, WiFi switch, airplane mode, screen brightness and what not.
The quick search mode, which can be accessed by simply double tapping on the home screen, will take you to the directory of all the apps installed on your device in alphabetical order.
You can add multiple pages to your home screen and they are easy to manage too, all you have to do is perform a pinch-out gesture right on your home screen.
You can further modify your Android home screen, add widgets, change wallpapers and themes by performing a tap-and-hold gesture.
- Hide/lock apps, SMS, pictures, and then easily access them with a two-finger swipe gesture.
- Completely personalize your Android device with hundreds and thousands of high-quality themes, wallpapers, and fonts.
- Omni Swipe allows you to switch between apps in seconds as well as quickly access other apps and tools.
- Come pre-installed with bloatware like phone booster, battery saver, and game booster that will slow down your device.
- Contains a lot of advertisements and pop-ups that negatively affect user experience.
6. +HOME Launcher
|Size:||4.59 MB|
|Requirement:||Android 4.1 Jelly Bean and above|
+HOME, or you can say Plus Home, is a free Android launcher that let you personalize your user experience by simply modifying the wallpaper, widgets, icons, and you can even select from thousands of pre-designed stylish themes.
The whole setup process is so easy that even a beginner can effortlessly customize the theme within minutes to better suit the sense of taste.
If you don’t like to spend your valuable time scrolling through the pages of apps to find the apps you are looking for, then you can use the one-stop-menu option that comes built-in with the +HOME launcher. It gives you easy access to calendar, alarm, maps, email, gallery, camera, and other frequently used apps with just a simple tap.
You can even create folders in the app drawer to better organize the apps installed on your Android device. This will help you organize apps according to their category or genre. This way you will know where to look for the apps.
+HOME launcher has the capability that will allow you to add pages to the dock. You can further customize dock by adjusting the number of visible icons as well as the total number of pages.
- Unify your apps by creating folders within the app drawer.
- Ability to modify the dock section and add additional pages.
- Personalized one-stop-menu that is just a tap away.
- Not currently compatible with Android 7 Nougat.
- A large number of pop-up advertisements that hurts the user experience.
- Fonts cannot be changed.
7. KK Launcher
|Size:||4.68 MB|
|Requirement:||Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich and above|
KK Launcher is the only launcher that provides you with the user interface similar to the latest Android 6.0 Marshmallow and Android 7.0 Nougat. Without compromising on the speed, power, and reliability.
If you are one of those Android users looking for a way to experience how the latest Android operating systems look like then this launcher will be perfect for you as it ensures that you have the smooth, powerful, and lightest launcher along with a modern touch.
Apart from giving you a way to get yourself familiar with the latest Android environment, there are several other things that this launcher is capable of doing.
With this launcher, you can have:
- Sidebar that gives you an easy access to a much cleaner interface which is appropriate for guest mode or kids zone,
- Enhanced Security with folder and app locking capabilities to put them behind an added layer of safety,
- Gesture Support provides support for over fifteen different gestures that you can even apply to desktop and icons,
- Super Folder allows you to create folder on the home screen as well as the app drawer to organize your apps,
…and a lot more.
There are hundreds and thousands of free themes that will completely modify your Android user interface including the wallpaper, icons, widgets, fonts, and desktop grid size.
Furthermore, you can easily manage and configure your home screen by adding or removing pages and widgets and modify other settings of the KK Launcher right from the home screen.
- Highly customizable with tons of options to configure the way your phone’s interface looks and works.
- You can secure your Android device by putting an additional lock on the apps or folder.
- Support for unread notification badge over the app icon.
- Popup advertisements, which might discourage many of you from using it. Unfortunately, even the prime version cannot remove these ads.
Best Android Launchers
These are the best launchers for Android. These may not be light but are the best in the market.
8. Action Launcher
Action Launcher is one of very best option for a launcher that mixes things and also changes the interface. One of the main and most unique features of Action launcher is Windows Start Menu-like bar that pops up on the left side of your screen, window-bars which you can use the application you like without searching for it. You can completely customize your All Apps list, icons and font as you like.
9. Google Now Launcher
Google’s very own launcher strips things down to basics. With Google Now Launcher you get access to button-free voice controls, and enough window bars to make you think you’re using Windows Vista again. It comes out of the box with Google Nexus devices. Use the Google Now launcher if you’re looking for high stability and a fast and stable Android experience.
10. Apex Launcher
Apex Launcher just like Nova blends smooth performance and also has a very good level of customization. The standout feature of Apex Launcher is a superb tablet mode allowing tablet users to rotate their home screen. The Pro version of Apex Launcher has a special Notifier service, which pushes notifications to a widget on your home screen.But for this service to use the app must be run in background draining battery.
11. Buzz Launcher
Buzz Launcher is packed with standard option of customization. But the advantage that Buzz Launcher has that it has thousands of user-created themes and widgets you can browse, download and tinker with. There are very more powerful launcher than Buzz launcher but if you’re all about matching colors of smartphone then Buzz is the launcher for you.
Conclusion
These are the best and lightest Android launchers that are smaller in size and consumes less memory, which makes them absolutely perfect for older devices with less processing power and RAM.
Have you tried any other Android lightweight launcher?
Please don’t forget to share this article with your friends if it helped you find the lightest launcher for your Android phone. 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidDo you want to improve the battery performance and increase the overall battery backup time of your Android device? Here are some of the handpicked and best battery saver apps for Android.
If you search for battery saver apps on the Google Play Store, then you will come across hundreds, if not thousands, of apps. However, not all of them will help you in saving your phone’s battery.
Here I have done all the research and found ten best battery saver apps for Android that will indeed help you in keeping the battery at its optimal level and increasing the battery backup time of your phone as well as a tablet.
#01 – DU Battery Saver – Power Saver
DU Battery Saver app is downloaded and loved by more than 400 million users because it is capable enough to make your cell phone’s battery last a lot longer and promises to help you to get up to 50 percent more battery life than usual.
The app is perfect for novice and beginner Android device users as it features a smartly configured battery saving profiles that allow you to start saving battery with just a touch of a button.
#02 – Battery Doctor (Battery Saver)
Battery Doctor app has been downloaded by more than 300 million users and has the user rating of 4.5 out of 5, which proves that the app is easy to use and do help in saving battery.
The Battery Doctor’s unique 1-tap battery optimization feature automatically stops all the power consuming apps with just a single tap on the button. This app is like a doctor for your smartphone’s battery.
#03 – Battery
The battery is the app developed by MacroPinch, who is one of the top developers of the Google Play Store. The app is designed to keep in mind the necessities and requirements of the user who is in search for a simple app to save battery with clean and minimalist UI.
Apart from battery saving features, the app also includes battery indicator, comes with lock screen widget, and provides additional informative metrics like temperature and voltage of the battery.
#04 – Go Battery Saver & Power Widget
Developed by Go Dev Team X, Go Battery Saver and Power Saver is an app that will give you a clutter-free user interface and the app is so popular among its users that it has managed to get more than fifteen million downloads.
The app provides you with accurate information about your phone’s battery as well as assessments about the remaining battery timing you will get on the current battery power. The interface allows you to personalize it according to your liking and frequently used optimization options.
#05 – JuiceDefender – Battery Saver
Juice Defender is one of those battery saving utilities that has been on the Play Store since the very beginning and has managed to help more than ten million users in optimizing their cell phone so that they can get the maximum battery timing on a single charge.
The app is crammed with smart features that are smart enough to automatically keep your phone’s performance at its optimum level while you are using it, and then turn it to maximum power saving mode while the phone is on standby. The transition between the two phases is so smooth that you won’t even notice!
#06 – Power Battery – Battery Saver
Power Battery is a battery-saving utility designed and developed by LIONMOBI team and gets frequent updates to make sure that your phone’s battery power last for the maximum time.
The intuitive power saving functions and battery monitoring system is designed to keep a constant tap on each app and provide you with the reports about the energy consumption. The app even gives you a notification if it finds any app is consuming high battery power to make sure that you are aware of it.
#07 – Greenify
Geenify is one of those apps that have been featured on numerous blogs and websites as the top battery saver utility for Android due to its great battery extending potentials.
The app is designed to help you in identifying those apps that are consuming most of your phone’s battery power, and then put those apps into hibernation to stop them from consuming excessive power while you are not using them.
#08 – Avast Battery Saver
Avast is a big name. And you must be aware of the software development company. They are popular for making antivirus applications for computer and mobile operating systems.
Avast Batter Saver app has recently been gone through some significant upgrades, which introduced various new battery saving functionalities as well as an overhauled user interface, making the app easier to use for everyone, and even more powerful to help you crush over twenty percent more battery power time!
#09 – ShutApp – Real Battery Saver
The developers behind ShutApp Real Battery Saver app has designed and implemented a unique algorithm in this app.
This algorithm makes it smart enough to detect apps that are consuming your cell phone’s battery power while it is in the standby mode. And any unusual activity is detected then the app will routinely shut it down to stop any further battery drainage.
#10 – 360 Battery – Battery Saver
Its developers smartly design the 360 Battery saver app that not only optimizes your phone to consume less battery power while you are using it, but it can even make your device charge a lot faster by keeping the battery hungry tasks and apps at its minimal consumption level.
And you can even further improve your phone’s battery performance by activating the one-tap power saver mode, and that’s the reason why the developers have named it 360 battery saving app.
Which One Is Your Favorite?
Did you try any battery saver app on your Android phone? Which app is your personal favorite? I would love to hear about them in the comments below! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android|Welcome to Best Android Forum || ||0 ||1744 ||April 12, 2016 |
|What are some of best Horror Games for Android? || ||5 ||643 ||October 26, 2020 |
|Spotify Free Premium APK Song Download Problem || ||11 ||7215 ||October 26, 2020 |
|What are some of the best free movie downloading apps for android? || ||17 ||4925 ||October 24, 2020 |
|How to Convert Spotify Playlist to MP3 || ||4 ||87 ||October 22, 2020 |
|How to Convert Apple Music to MP3 || ||2 ||58 ||October 13, 2020 |
|How To Set Spotify Song as Alarm on Android || ||2 ||105 ||October 9, 2020 |
|I Am Looking For A App For streaming, but any free one || ||0 ||37 ||October 5, 2020 |
|What are some of the Best Apps to be More Productive? || ||4 ||748 ||October 1, 2020 |
|How to download Among Us on Xbox? || ||0 ||67 ||September 29, 2020 |
|How to Download and Convert Spotify Music to MP3 || ||5 ||286 ||September 29, 2020 |
|Phone stuck in a boot loop and recovery mode is unaccessable || ||1 ||113 ||September 28, 2020 |
|Free Spotify premium! || ||11 ||2098 ||September 25, 2020 |
|What are the best Flash on Call Alert app in 2020? || ||3 ||172 ||September 25, 2020 |
|Asus 6 camera rattles when rotate || ||0 ||44 ||September 24, 2020 |
|Share Your Favorite Video Player Apps For Android || ||9 ||1259 ||September 24, 2020 |
|How to Root Android Mobile Phone Without PC || ||9 ||724 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Best sources to download MovieBox APK & Alternatives || ||24 ||7713 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Best Free Ringtones For Android || ||24 ||4194 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Rog phone 3 isn't connecting to WIFI automatically || ||1 ||79 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Questions about Spotify Premium APK || ||6 ||1788 ||September 23, 2020 |
|What are some best apps to find alternative apps? || ||3 ||188 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Share your favorite wallpaper apps for Android || ||4 ||802 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Galaxy s7 edge battery draining while charging || ||20 ||749 ||September 22, 2020 |
|What is Easiest Way to Download Online Videos for Offline Viewing? || ||19 ||3172 ||September 22, 2020 |
|How to disable the Bixby Button on Samsung Galaxy S8, S8+ & Note 8? || ||4 ||1158 ||September 17, 2020 |
|Best App for Android to Download and Convert Online Video to Mp3 For Listening || ||33 ||8425 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How To Transfer Apps Between Android Devices || ||11 ||823 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How to Transfer Pictures from Your Android Device to PC || ||10 ||978 ||September 15, 2020 |
|Spotify closing out for no reason || ||2 ||181 ||September 15, 2020 |All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
Almost every Android phone and device comes equipped with a Google app and voice search assistant, and once that is…
Believe me, when I say that Do Not Disturb mode is one of the less used features on Android. That’s…
A step-by-step guide on how to change Spotify username on Android, iPhone, iPad, Windows, or Mac devices. We have shared…
VPN is an essential internet tool that increases your safety and privacy online.
Smartphones add a lot of flexibility to the way people work, live, and consume entertainment. The screen may be smaller,…
Here in this blog post, we will discuss Bitmoji keyboard for Android and: We have written a complete step-by-step guide…
Here we have a step-by-step guide on how to fix Google Play store has stopped working error on Android. You…
Are you looking for a trick to get Spotify Premium for free on Android without paying for the paid features? You are at the right place, as here we will guide you about where to get Spotify Premium app that offers you all the premium features for free and then how to properly install it on your Android device.
Snapchat requires you to have a Snapchat app installed on your mobile device and have an account to view Snaps…
Are you looking for a way to use Waze and Google Maps offline to save Internet data or maybe you…
We can understand how frustrating it becomes when you are unable to play your favorite music and no matter what…
In this blog post, we are going to discuss all the possible techniques to disable Chrome site notifications on Android…
Are you looking for a way to give your Android smartphone or tablet device a complete overhaul? Hands down Lineage…
YouTube is an American website with headquarter in San Bruno, California. It was developed in February 2005 and has been…Best Android apps that can help you learn English quickly and easily. Language is a communication skill, and anyone can work on it to either learn or add a new skill set to communicate with others in a better way, which could be in the form of speaking, reading, listening or writing. There can be dozens of reasons for improving your English language skills.
Would you like to land a well-paid job and build a great career? Are you dreaming of building your own business and attracting high-ticket clients? Or maybe you want to study in one of the top universities like Oxford or Harvard with excellence?
If the answer is yes to any of those questions, then it is important to have an excellent English language command. Thankfully, nowadays, where you have the whole world in the palm of your hand, it’s not that difficult if you use the right app on your smartphone.
Yes, you read that right. You can learn a new language at home or while you are on the move. All you need is an Android smartphone or a tablet device along with reliable Internet connectivity.
In this blog post, I will share the 7 best English learning apps for Android with you that will help you hit your language goals in fun and exciting ways.
Best Android Apps To Learn English
Here I have reviewed the seven best Android apps that will help you learn English:
1 – Wlingua
When it comes to learning English, Wlingua is a fantastic app. It offers you two English courses, i.e., American English and British English.
They have a premium plan where you can get unlimited access to all course content and activities, including grammar lessons, pronunciation course, and other cool features. However, using Wlingua, you can learn English for free, which is pretty cool for beginners looking to try a new learning app.
No matter which plans you opt for, the learning process is specifically designed to make it easy and guided. All the lessons are well structured, gives you certificates after each level.
- There are over 42 lessons with lots of flashcards, vocabulary, and grammar exercises. The courses are designed funnily and interactively.
- The app incentivizes you to learn English regularly and offers you certificates.
- Offer you over six hours of premium access if you complete a certain number of exercises with good numbers.
2 – Duolingo
Duolingo is definitely an OG in the world of English learning apps. It is a well-designed and highly interactive app. There are a variety of lessons for speaking, reading, and writing suitable for beginners and advanced learners.
The learning process is intuitive, and all you need is to spend about thirty minutes daily, and you can complete quite a lot of English lessons within a few weeks.
- The cool thing about Duolingo is the app helps you develop all language skills, including writing, reading, speaking, and listening skills.
- The app offers you the same concept of using flashcards as Wlingua to learn new words regularly.
3 – BBC Learning English
BBC Education has developed the BBC Learning English app that stays in your pocket and can help you improve your English language and keep your skills up to date. They give you tons of helpful resources inside the app, including audio programs for vocabulary and grammar.
- New lessons and courses are updated every day.
- Excellent daily series like Business English, 6 Minute English, Learn English with the News, and some other great resources.
- Subtitles and transcripts are available in exercises to further improve your listening skills.
- Option to download audio lessons to listen to them even when you don’t have Internet access.
4 – Busuu
Bussu helps you become fluent in the English language with the help of vocabulary and grammar training and offers you a personalized handcrafted study plan so that you can stay motivated throughout your language-learning route.
You can achieve your English language goals and aims with course outline and content designed by the industry experts. And you can even track your progress and discover how fluent you are with the help of a built-in tracking option.
- You can learn English through communication with native speakers and experts who are registered users of the app.
- Busuu is one of the top choices, according to the Google Play team, as it is one of the most suitable apps, whether you are a beginner or intermediate level student.
- You will receive official certificates when you complete a language course, which will help you with a job hunt or college interview.
5 – Babbel
Babbel is one of the most popular English learning apps on Android. The majority of the lessons are short, precise, and very interactive. The app can help you work your way to advance the conversation skill level by taking different vocabulary and grammar courses.
- Unique techniques to quickly broaden your vocabulary.
- One of Babbel’s proven techniques is to provide you with bite-size and highly interactive lessons.
- It is generally a good app with a minor drawback of a voice input bug that needs to be fixed.
6 – Rosetta Stone
Rosetta Stone English language learning app takes a slightly different approach than the other apps I have featured in this blog post. It uses a Dynamic Immersion method that helps you surround yourself with a language you are trying to learn.
Rosetta Stone Ltd. provides you with contextual based highly interactive lessons combined with Extended Learning features. You can learn the English language anywhere, anytime, and on any device regardless of your access to Internet connectivity.
- Easy to fit into your schedule, no matter how less of a time you have. You only need a minimum of 10-minutes every day.
- The paid language learning subscription will unlock premium features for all the supported languages so that you can learn any language you want.
- The app is completely ad-free.
7 – Memrise
Memrise is quite different from the other language learning apps reviewed in the list, as it is a crowd-sourced English learning app. The platform allows you to learn the language with native speakers.
Being crowd-sourced and having a community, most of the courses and lessons are made by other Memrise platform members. Usually, the language-learning process is tedious and time-consuming; however, the app is based on the words and phrases we all use in real-life, which helps keep the boredom away.
- You can download the course and complete it anywhere you want (no Internet connection needed), allowing you to learn the language whenever and wherever you want.
- Some exercises and lessons help build your ability to understand the language in real-world contexts.
- The app has a tested and proven system that speeds up your learning process and makes it easier for you to memorize new words and phrases.
As you can see, there are several ways to learn English right through your smartphone. It doesn’t always have to be memorizing vocabulary (the painful way), doing many grammar exercises, and reading countless boring books.
Undoubtedly, each English learning app is different for a particular group of people, and each app has its strengths and weaknesses. No app is perfect.
Hopefully, these apps will help improve your English oral and writing skills in no time. Still, if you feel that you don’t have a good command over English to write a compelling and well-researched essay, feel free to turn to this pro college paper writing service for assistance.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidIn this blog post, we are going to discuss all the possible techniques to disable Chrome site notifications on Android phone and tablet devices:
- Are you tired of constant pop-ups and notifications from Google Chrome? Here we have the ultimate guide to disable Chrome site notifications on Android.
- We have shared four methods along with a complete step-by-step tutorial to help you get rid of unwanted site notifications and pop-ups from Google Chrome.
- There is even a method using which you can customize notifications sent by websites through the Chrome web browser.
Majority of the Android users use Google Chrome as their primary browser because it comes preinstalled on their devices. However, one major downside of this web browser is that it constantly request popup for site notifications.
Apart from the usability and benefits of the Google Chrome site notifications, the key aspect of this feature is to keep you updated with important website activities and to provide a better experience for sites like a web version of Gmail in the form of banners.
Seeing frequent popups for notification requests from sites that you are going to visit once is of little to no value. It’s more like spamming, and constant popups affect the overall site usage experience too. It is also observed that not all web notifications are safe, and they tend to contain malware or adware that can affect your device performance.
So if by any chance you have mistakenly allowed site notifications or you are getting unwanted random popup notifications or maybe you find those popups annoying, and they are constantly bugging you. You don’t have to worry. Here we have a complete guide on how to disable Chrome site notifications on Android.
How to Disable Google Chrome Site Notifications
Google Chrome, by default, asks you whenever a site wants to get permission to send you notifications and you will get a popup similar to the one shown below asking, XYZ website wants to send you notifications.
As you can already see, you have the option to either “allow” or “block” these notifications. Tapping on either option will store your preference for that site in your Chrome browser. We will discuss about making modifications to these settings below.
Anyways, that is one way to disable Chrome site notifications on Android from a single website.
However, you may ask if there is any way to get rid of these annoying popup site notifications completely. Actually, there are two methods and we are going to share both of them below.
Disable Site Notifications using Chrome Incognito Mode
Google Chrome Incognito mode, which is also known as private browsing, is a privacy feature that stops the web browser from remembering your activity and let you browse the web privately.
While you are in Incognito mode, Chrome won’t save your browsing activities, including site data, history, and cookies. What’s interesting is that while you are in this mode, you won’t receive popups asking for site notifications.
Here is how you can open Incognito mode on Google Chrome:
- Open Chrome web browser.
- On the top right corner, there is a menu button, tap it, and then tap on the New Incognito tab.
- A new tab will open with a dark theme and a visible Incognito icon.
You can now freely browse the web without getting distracted by those annoying Chrome site notifications.
Filtering Site Notifications for Specific Websites
Remember, at the beginning of this tutorial, we told you about the notifications popups and how you can allow or block site notifications while browsing. Now, in this method, we are going to share how you can customize notifications settings for specific websites. You will also be able to change notification sound settings.
Here are the steps to manage Chrome site notifications for specific websites:
- Open Chrome web browser.
- On the top right corner, there is a menu button, tap it, and then tap on Settings.
- Under the Advanced section, tap on Site Settings.
- In the list of settings, look for Notifications and tap it.
- Here you will see two drop-down lists, i.e., Blocked and Allowed. Tapping on it will show you a list of all the websites for which you have allowed or blocked site notifications.
- You can tap on the site name and make changes to the permissions, including notifications and sound.
Using these same steps, you can also revoke site notifications access for any website to which you might have accidentally allowed before but don’t know how to stop those notifications from appearing on your phone.
Completely Disable Site Notifications on Chrome
There are chances that some users may find these popup notifications too annoying because it continues to bug them frequently, and they don’t want to use the Incognito mode method.
There is actually a way to disable Chrome site notifications popups from settings completely. Here is how you can do this:
- Open Chrome web browser.
- On the top right corner, there is a menu button, tap it, and then tap on Settings.
- Under the Advanced section, tap on Site Settings.
- In the list of settings, look for Notifications and tap it.
- Tap on the Notifications toggle button to switch it off and disable site notifications.
Toggling Notifications to off will change the site notifications setting to blocked, which will prevent any further popups from appearing.
Conclusion
There you have it, guys. These are some of the easiest ways to disable Chrome site notifications on Android. Now you will no longer be annoyed by the unwanted notifications and popups while browsing websites on Google Chrome web browser, giving you complete control over Chrome site notifications.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidSabrina
“Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don’t matter, and those who matter don’t mind.”Kodi is one of the greatest entertainment hub ever developed for devices running Android and currently the high demand for the Android TV box (that usually comes preloaded with Kodi) is the reason why the majority of users are looking for a working way to watch live TV channels on their devices. Because it’s free and does not cost a dime to stream a wide range of TV channels from all around the world.
And the best thing is that the Android set-top boxes can be directly connected to your television or projector and you can use it to stream almost any content from the Internet including but not limited to 24/7 live TV channels, TV shows, movies, anime, cartoons, sports, and what not.
Now, to watch and stream live TV channels on Kodi, it is mandatory to download and install IPTV addons that allows you to stream live TV channels. Since there are countless add-ons and the list continues to evolve, at the time of writing this, the following are some of the best live TV Kodi add-ons that will let you stream live TV:
Covenant
Covenant was officially released by The Alpha during July 2017. It has a similar design as the add-on named Exodus. If you have heard about/used Exodus add-on then you must be aware of its discontinuation. And since then, Covenant is the new Exodus. It works perfectly and offers similar but updated streaming HD content.
Even though Exodus is one of the most popular add-ons among those who are looking for live TV streaming, but I will recommend you to try Covenant because it brings the updated list of live TV channel sources, movies, TV shows, and other streamable content right on the Kodi.
Elysium
Elysium was formerly known as Zen add-on and it shares a similar story as Exodus and Covenant. This add-on has some of the biggest active sources for TV shows, old and latest movies, and live TV channels. The add-on is designed to automatically scrape for all the available links to streaming HD content.
For those of you who don’t know, the Zen was originally being developed by Schism but his retirement the NaN (Noobs and Nerds) continued development on this add-on. And to avoid any confusion, they rebranded it as Elysium and started distributing it through their own repository.
Recently, due to increase in the popularity of add-on among Kodi users, the developers behind Elysium are experiencing problems with the API overload that may result in unable to fetch results for movies and TV shows. To avoid this problem, it is recommended to get your own TMDB API key. (We will have a tutorial on this soon).
Stream Hub
Stream Hub add-on, which was previously known as Media Hub, is another very popular Kodi add-on where you can find all the streamable high definition media and HD content for free including live TV channels, movies, TV shows. And all of these contents are scraped from the Internet and provided to you whenever you request.
Similar to how other add-ons work, the content available in Stream Hub is also well categorized and neatly arranged in different sections. This makes it easy for you to find the right type of content without spending too much of your time wandering around the add-on and opening different lists. The basic sections in Stream Hub are Movies, Live TV, Kids Corner, TV Shows, Sports, Anime, For Him, and For Her. Opening any of them will take you to its subsection.
Bob Unleashed
Bob Unleashed add-on is an updated and latest version of what previously known as Bob Unrestricted but that is no longer working now. The add-on is being distributed by (NaN) Noobs and Nerds repository portal.
The add-on provides you with tons of working sources for latest movies and TV shows in HD quality along with the functional live TV channel links. It is currently one of the top and best playlist add-ons currently available for Kodi. And it always provides its users with the great amount of quality content with the neatly organized playlist.
Made in Canada IPTV (MiC IPTV)
Made in Canada is a favorite add-on among Kodi users who are interested in free IPTV Canadian channels including entertainment, sports, news, and drama. The channels scraped by this add-on are available in French and English languages and there is a section for special events too.
The add-on gives you a straight and lag-free access to wide range of HD live TV channels in high quality. According to the users, you will be able to find all the TV channels that are found in the cable TV in Canada. The MiC Kodi add-on is the original source for people who are looking to stream Canadian content, sports, live hockey, and basketball game shows.
Supremacy
Supremacy is a free IPTV add-on for Kodi that let you steam tons of live TV channels, live sports channels, a dedicated section for kids, TV shows, 4K movies, list of active 24/7 TV channels, and even 3D films. It is currently one of the best add-ons for Kodi for streaming live content in HD quality.
While scrolling through the available channels, you may come across dead links as most of them are scraped from the Internet, however surprisingly some live TV channels sources are in 720p and 1080p resolutions too. Overall, the quality of streams and content being provided by Supremacy add-on is excellent.
cCloud TV
cCloud TV is one of the oldest and the most reliable source for up-to-date live TV streams and live TV channels from all around the world. Even though the developer has stopped actively maintaining the sources for live TV channels but most of the links are working as the IPTV channels scraper is still working great.
The best thing is all the contents are well organized according to type and genre. And apart from the TV channels, there are streamable movies and TV shows too.
You may face a problem here or there while streaming content or when trying to select your favorite channels from the list because that’s how these free live TV channels scraper works. However, many Kodi users are still using this add-on to stream content on daily basis. You can try your luck!
USTVNow Plus
USTVNow Plus is an official provider of streaming live TV channels on Kodi with the ability to stream some of the most popular US TV channels outside the USA. It is an IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) service for American citizens living overseas.
There are two subscription packages, free and paid. The free package allows you to stream some selected live TV channels including ABC, CW, FOX, My9, CBS, NBC, and PBS as well as some limited DVR options. Whereas the paid package will let you stream all the available 28 US TV channels live on your Kodi including Animal Planet, CNBC, Discovery Channel, ESPN, National Geographic, Nickelodeon, and Comedy Central along with the full DVR capabilities.
It is important to note here that to be able to stream the live TV channels on your Kodi app then you must need to create an account on the USTVNow Plus website.Mobdro APK – Have you ever thought about a mobile app that will let you stream all types of live videos and movie channels directly on your Android device without any charges? Look no further, simply download Mobdro app now and enjoy endless streamable content, in the form of the channel, from all around the web.
About Mobdro APK Movies Streaming
Mobdro apk is favorite videos and movies streaming app for Android smartphones and tablet devices that search the whole web, discovers all the freely available streamable media content, and then sorts each one of them neatly in different categories including news, TV shows, movies, music, sports, gaming, technology, animals, cartoons, and whatnot.
From the list of categories, just tap on your favorite category and the app will show you the list of all the live and streamable videos available from all around the world in that specific category. For example, if you choose movies, then the Mobdro app will show you a list of movie channels where different movies would be playing. From this point onwards, you can just try switching between different channels until you find the one that is worth watching.
By now, you must have got an idea about how the Mobdro app actually works. The user interface of this app is designed in such a way that the experience of using it seems pretty much similar to how you switch channels on your home television because in both cases you will never know what type of show, movie, or content will be playing on the upcoming channel.
The broad variety of streaming media and video content available in Mobdro for Android is overwhelming and caters to the needs and requirements of people for all ages and interests. You can easily explore the broad world of entertainment including dramas, TV shows, movies, TV serials, programs, technology, music, gaming, and a variety of other media content.
If you love entertainment and watch TV shows or programs consistently then Mobdro apk will come handy in those situations when you miss an episode or two due to your busy schedule or unable to view because you were out with your friends. Using this app, you can easily find those missed TV show episodes, and then binge-watch those episodes whenever you want.
It is important to let you know that Mobdro was previously not entirely free and there were two different versions, i.e. Freemium and Premium. Because the app was gaining serious popularity among the entertainment and media streaming users, so the developers planned to add a paid Premium version with the option to remove advertisements along with some additional features like the option to remove ads as well as the ability to download live streams.
But that addition of Premium turned off a lot of users and negatively affected the usage of the app. So the developers decided to change their app structure completely and introduced premium versions within the Freemium Mobdro without any charges.
The Mobdro Freemium version is entirely free to download, install, and use on any Android device and does not require any charges or fees to use but it is supported by advertisements so you can expect to see ads here and there while watching videos. However, there is an added option that let you turn off advertisements without any charges.
To know more about the details of all the features available in the new Mobdro Freemium apk, please continue reading the features section below.
Mobdro App Features for Android
Mobdro is a very streamlined app that is designed to deliver streaming channels right onto your Android phone so that you can keep yourself entertained whenever you want. All you need is the app and an active Internet connection. The Mobdro APK version has some prominent features, which are as follows:
Discover Streaming Content – Quickly find and stream videos, movies, and other live content on any topic and language from all around the Web. Videos and streamable entertainment content is available in a variety of languages and genres.
Bookmark Your Favorite Channels – While browsing Mobdro for entertainment content you might come across a few channels that you like or might be of your interest, which you want to access later. Simply bookmark those channels to add to favorite.
Share The Channel You Like With Friends – If you are watching an exciting channel and want your friends to watch it too then just use the native share option that will let you instantly share it with your friends so that they can start watching too.
Remove Advertisements – There is an option in the Mobdro Settings section that allows you to turn off all the advertisements, which takes away all the ads to give you a clean and ad-free watching experience, though this advertisement-free experience comes at the cost of some of your device’s resources.
Ability To Download Live Streams – Whenever you are playing any live stream or watching your favorite channel, there you will see an option to download live streams and then watch those downloaded streams later whenever you want. You can download streams for specific minutes or hours (depending on the free storage space available on your device).
Sleep Timer For Auto Power Off – Handy feature that is helpful when you are sleepy but worried about completely draining your battery in case you sleep. Built-in sleep timer functionality will let you set the timer, which will automatically shut down the Mobdro apk to save your phone’s battery power, in case you fall asleep while watching your favorite content.
Chromecast Support – Chromecast integration will allow you to enjoy Mobdro content on the smart TV or any media device with Chromecast support and connected to a large screen.Download 8 Ball Pool Hack
Disclaimer: 8 ball pool is owned and copyright protected by Miniclip. By posting apk here for gamers we do not…
Are you searching for a Subway Surfers mod and hack APK to get unlimited coins and keys? Your search is…
Asphalt 8 Airborne apk mod and obb data (highly compressed) file available for download for Android, you can get unlimited…
Are you looking for a working Clash of Clans mod apk to hack the in-game resources and get unlimited gems,…
GTA San Andreas APK for Android so if you are you a hardcore Grand Theft Auto fan and looking to…
The modified, patched, and a modded Google Play Store apk is one of the most called for apps among Android…
Are you looking for a quick and easy Candy Crush Saga mod apk with all the levels and episodes unlocked…
The Clash Royale hack apk for Android devices with unlimited gems, gold, coins, elixir, and maximum level is available for…
With Spotify, you can play millions of songs and podcasts for free. Listen to the songs and podcasts you love and find music from all over the world.
Are you in search for a SimCity BuildIt mod apk for Android phone and tablet devices with unlimited Simoleons, NeoSimoleons,…
Pandora cracked mod apk is known by various names including Pandora One, Pandora Radio, and Pandora Internet Radio and it…Download 8 Ball Pool Hack
Disclaimer: 8 ball pool is owned and copyright protected by Miniclip. By posting apk here for gamers we do not…
Are you searching for a Subway Surfers mod and hack APK to get unlimited coins and keys? Your search is…
Asphalt 8 Airborne apk mod and obb data (highly compressed) file available for download for Android, you can get unlimited…
Are you looking for a working Clash of Clans mod apk to hack the in-game resources and get unlimited gems,…
GTA San Andreas APK for Android so if you are you a hardcore Grand Theft Auto fan and looking to…
Are you looking for a quick and easy Candy Crush Saga mod apk with all the levels and episodes unlocked…
The Clash Royale hack apk for Android devices with unlimited gems, gold, coins, elixir, and maximum level is available for…
Are you in search for a SimCity BuildIt mod apk for Android phone and tablet devices with unlimited Simoleons, NeoSimoleons,…
Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can’t download directly…Hi everyone, I had a question to ask you people before a buy one of these two phones. So I wanted to ask if I should buy the original 5 or the 5T and what’s the difference between both of these phones.Spotify Free Premium APK [Mod]
With Spotify, you can play millions of songs and podcasts for free. Listen to the songs and podcasts you love and find music from all over the world.
Pandora cracked mod apk is known by various names including Pandora One, Pandora Radio, and Pandora Internet Radio and it…
TubeMate for Android to download videos from video streaming websites directly on your Android device. Many sites do not officially…
Spotify apk download for Android and listen to music, songs, and podcasts anytime and anywhere. It’s an all in one…
InsTube apk YouTube downloader app for Android phone and tablet devices that let you download your favorite music and videos…
TVMC apk for Android download now to enjoy tons of movies, TV shows, and stream content directly on your Android…
Dentex YouTube Downloader apk for Android available to help you download your favorite videos from YouTube directly on your Android…
Mobdro APK – Have you ever thought about a mobile app that will let you stream all types of live…
Are you looking for movie streaming apps or want to download movies and TV shows on your Android phone/tablet? You…
OneBox HD apk & mod will let you watch, stream, and download all the latest movies and TV shows on…Discussion about this site, its organization, how it works, and how we can improve it.Tired of keeping your cell phone always plugged into a battery bank or an external power source to make sure you can play Pokémon Go throughout the day?
We all are well aware of the fact that Pokémon Go is a battery hungry app and requires a lot of battery juice. And battery hogging is the same reason why most of the players opted for power banks to keep their phone’s battery at the optimum level so that they can continue playing the game without letting the phone die.
But now you might not need to do all that because there is a battery saver mode built right into the app and available for your convenience.
Yes, you heard that right! 😀
Developers did include a battery saver mode in the app, and many users are not even aware of it.
Here I am going to teach you how to use battery saver mode on Pokémon Go so that you can save battery and play the game for extended hours on a single charge.
How To Use Battery Saver Mode On Pokémon Go?
Below I have included a step-by-step guide along with the pictures to make it easier for you to enable the battery saver mode on Pokémon Go.
Step #01 – On the Pokémon Go, while you are on the Map view, tap the Poké Ball icon located at the bottom of the screen, this will pop up the options menu.
Step #02 – Under the options menu, tap on the “Settings” button located at the upper-right corner of the screen.
Step #03 – In the Settings section, you will see a Battery Saver check box. Tap on it to enable the battery saver mode.
What the battery saver mode does is that it forces your phone to enter a low-power state mode whenever you hold your cell phone in an upside down position, so that the app consumes fewer system resources while you are walking around which in turn saves a significant amount of battery power.
Why Battery Saver Mode On Pokémon Go Is Not Working?
I have seen a lot of users complaining that the battery saver on Pokémon Go is not working. Here is my answer for those users:
Pokémon save battery option does the following things to your phone whenever you hold it in an upside down position:
- Shows a black Pokémon Go picture on the screen,
- Turns off the touch capabilities on the app.
Now to properly understand the working of this battery saver mode, you need to be aware of the two most popular display screen types i.e. LCDs and OLEDs.
In case you don’t know, different phones have different display screens. Some phones have LCD screen, while others have OLED display screens.
OLED screens are much more power efficient because they are capable of showing true blacks, as compared to the LCD screens that uses a backlight and displaying black picture doesn’t turn off the backlight.
So, if you enable the Pokémon Go battery saver mode on a phone that have a LCD screen then this will make you think that your phone’s screen has been turned off, however, in reality, it will be on and consume your battery power.
Basically, in a nutshell, this battery saver mode is specially suitable for phones that have OLED display screen and will save a significant amount of your phone’s battery.
Conclusion
Did the Pokémon Go built-in battery saver functionality helped you in improving your phone’s battery life? Do share you experience in the comments section down below.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidPopcorn Time apk for Android will help you watch and stream full-length movies and TV shows in HD quality on your Android phone, tablet, or TV device along with the option to download for offline playback. It is one of the best solutions as it allows you to stream any movie and TV shows directly on your Android device, all for free. 😀
Yes, you read that right…
You can watch all those latest as well as classic movies and TV shows directly on your Android without any need to search for online links, purchase DVDs, or pay rental fees. Popcorn Time has a huge database of movies, anime, TV shows, and all you need is an active Internet connection.
About Popcorn Time APK
Popcorn Time is one of the best apps to watch and stream movies, TV series, shows, and anime online directly on your smartphone. Once installed, you can easily browse through hundreds and thousands of content and find movies by genre or sort the list of movies and shows according to the popularity.
If you’re searching for a movie and want to watch its trailer, you don’t even need to go to any other app. Just tap on the thumbnail of the film and tap on the trailer button, which will take you directly to the official trailer.
It also has a nice feature to mark the watched shows and movies as seen so that you don’t waste your time and internet bandwidth on checking if you have watched that movie or not.
It allows you to watch movies without downloading. However, if your WiFi connection is slow, then you can even download movies and TV shows to watch without the Internet.
Features of Popcorn Time for Android
Here are some of the most notable features that you can enjoy with the official Popcorn Time.sh (PopcornTime.app) movie scraper app for Android phone, tablet, and TV devices:
- Huge Database of Movies and TV Shows – The app is designed to automatically search and scrape for all the best available torrents while keeping the database of movies and TV shows updated.
- Collection of Anime Movies and Shows – A separate section where there is a massive collection of all the anime based shows, cartoons, and movies.
- No restrictions – Allows you to watch and download any movie and TV series as many times as you want, without any limits. All you need is a reliable Internet connection.
- Remarkable catalog with superiority – Each movie and TV show in the Popcorn Time database is available in a variety of quality, including 1080p, 720p, and 480p.
- Free streaming – Popcorn Time apk allows you to stream your favorite movies and shows right on your Android devices.
- Watch offline – Just download the movies and watch them when you get time. No internet needed. You can even share or transfer it to other devices like PC or media box.
- Speed gates – Option to limit the download speed so that it doesn’t affect other devices connected on the same internet network.
- Various viewing modes – Change the viewing mode to TV mode if you’re using this on an Android TV device for better, simpler, and more accessible controls and navigation.
Settings and UI
As this app is fully compatible with Android TV devices, so the Settings section also allows you to customize the interface type and gives you an option to change between mobile and TV, depending on the type of device you are using.
You can further customize the subtitles and change limitations for downloads like connection limitations as well as maximum downloading speeds so that movie/TV show downloads won’t affect your overall WiFi network.
In case you don’t know, the Popcorn Time apk is like a BitTorrent client with a built-in media player. That means the app streams all the content directly from the torrents.
That is why it is crucial to keep in mind that downloading copyright material might be illegal in your country, so use this app with caution. And it is recommended to use a VPN service to hide your identity and stream safely without worrying about copyright.
To protect your privacy and safeguard yourself from copyright warnings from your ISP (Internet Service Provider), we will highly recommend you to use a reliable VPN app on your device. Here are the recommended VPN apps for Android devices.
Popcorn Time Mod Info
The mod is based on the unlocked mod (credits Balatan and hifi2007) and offers the following features:
- VPN dialog disabled;
- Disabled and removed unwanted permissions, receivers and services;
- Analytics and crashlytics are disabled.
And here are mod lite features:
- VPN message removed,
- On launch Share popup removed (can still be accessible from the Settings),
- Debug removed,
- Few services removed,
- Cloned with a different package name (dp.ws.popcorntimf),
- Changed app name to Popcorn Time Lite,
- Analytics is disabled.
Doesn’t install. Not showing proper icon.The following terms and conditions govern all use of the company_domain website and all content, services and products available at or through the website, including, but not limited to, company_domain Forum Software, company_domain Support Forums and the company_domain Hosting service (“Hosting”), (taken together, the Website). The Website is owned and operated by company_full_name (“company_short_name”). The Website is offered subject to your acceptance without modification of all of the terms and conditions contained herein and all other operating rules, policies (including, without limitation, company_domain’s Privacy Policy and Community Guidelines) and procedures that may be published from time to time on this Site by company_short_name (collectively, the “Agreement”).
Please read this Agreement carefully before accessing or using the Website. By accessing or using any part of the web site, you agree to become bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement. If you do not agree to all the terms and conditions of this agreement, then you may not access the Website or use any services. If these terms and conditions are considered an offer by company_short_name, acceptance is expressly limited to these terms. The Website is available only to individuals who are at least 13 years old.
1. Your company_domain Account
If you create an account on the Website, you are responsible for maintaining the security of your account and you are fully responsible for all activities that occur under the account. You must immediately notify company_short_name of any unauthorized uses of your account or any other breaches of security. company_short_name will not be liable for any acts or omissions by you, including any damages of any kind incurred as a result of such acts or omissions.
2. Responsibility of Contributors
If you post material to the Website, post links on the Website, or otherwise make (or allow any third party to make) material available by means of the Website (any such material, “Content”), You are entirely responsible for the content of, and any harm resulting from, that Content. That is the case regardless of whether the Content in question constitutes text, graphics, an audio file, or computer software. By making Content available, you represent and warrant that:
- the downloading, copying and use of the Content will not infringe the proprietary rights, including but not limited to the copyright, patent, trademark or trade secret rights, of any third party;
- if your employer has rights to intellectual property you create, you have either (i) received permission from your employer to post or make available the Content, including but not limited to any software, or (ii) secured from your employer a waiver as to all rights in or to the Content;
- you have fully complied with any third-party licenses relating to the Content, and have done all things necessary to successfully pass through to end users any required terms;
- the Content does not contain or install any viruses, worms, malware, Trojan horses or other harmful or destructive content;
- the Content is not spam, is not machine- or randomly-generated, and does not contain unethical or unwanted commercial content designed to drive traffic to third party sites or boost the search engine rankings of third party sites, or to further unlawful acts (such as phishing) or mislead recipients as to the source of the material (such as spoofing);
- the Content is not pornographic, does not contain threats or incite violence, and does not violate the privacy or publicity rights of any third party;
- your content is not getting advertised via unwanted electronic messages such as spam links on newsgroups, email lists, blogs and web sites, and similar unsolicited promotional methods;
- your content is not named in a manner that misleads your readers into thinking that you are another person or company; and
- you have, in the case of Content that includes computer code, accurately categorized and/or described the type, nature, uses and effects of the materials, whether requested to do so by company_short_name or otherwise.
3. User Content License
User contributions are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. Without limiting any of those representations or warranties, company_short_name has the right (though not the obligation) to, in company_short_name’s sole discretion (i) refuse or remove any content that, in company_short_name’s reasonable opinion, violates any company_short_name policy or is in any way harmful or objectionable, or (ii) terminate or deny access to and use of the Website to any individual or entity for any reason, in company_short_name’s sole discretion. company_short_name will have no obligation to provide a refund of any amounts previously paid.
4. Payment and Renewal
General Terms
Optional paid services or upgrades may be available on the Website. When utilizing an optional paid service or upgrade, you agree to pay company_short_name the monthly or annual subscription fees indicated. Payments will be charged on a pre-pay basis on the day you begin utilizing the service or upgrade and will cover the use of that service or upgrade for a monthly or annual subscription period as indicated. These fees are not refundable.
Automatic Renewal
Unless you notify company_short_name before the end of the applicable subscription period that you want to cancel a service or upgrade, your subscription will automatically renew and you authorize us to collect the then-applicable annual or monthly subscription fee (as well as any taxes) using any credit card or other payment mechanism we have on record for you. Subscriptions can be canceled at any time.
5. Services
Hosting, Support Services
Optional Hosting and Support services may be provided by company_short_name under the terms and conditions for each such service. By signing up for a Hosting/Support or Support services account, you agree to abide by such terms and conditions.
6. Responsibility of Website Visitors
company_short_name has not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, posted to the Website, and cannot therefore be responsible for that material’s content, use or effects. By operating the Website, company_short_name does not represent or imply that it endorses the material there posted, or that it believes such material to be accurate, useful or non-harmful. You are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. The Website may contain content that is offensive, indecent, or otherwise objectionable, as well as content containing technical inaccuracies, typographical mistakes, and other errors. The Website may also contain material that violates the privacy or publicity rights, or infringes the intellectual property and other proprietary rights, of third parties, or the downloading, copying or use of which is subject to additional terms and conditions, stated or unstated. company_short_name disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from the use by visitors of the Website, or from any downloading by those visitors of content there posted.
7. Content Posted on Other Websites
We have not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, made available through the websites and webpages to which company_domain links, and that link to company_domain. company_short_name does not have any control over those non-company_domain websites and webpages, and is not responsible for their contents or their use. By linking to a non-company_domain website or webpage, company_short_name does not represent or imply that it endorses such website or webpage. You are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. company_short_name disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from your use of non-company_domain websites and webpages.
8. Copyright Infringement and DMCA Policy
As company_short_name asks others to respect its intellectual property rights, it respects the intellectual property rights of others. If you believe that material located on or linked to by company_domain violates your copyright, and if this website resides in the USA, you are encouraged to notify company_short_name in accordance with company_short_name’s Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”) Policy. company_short_name will respond to all such notices, including as required or appropriate by removing the infringing material or disabling all links to the infringing material. company_short_name will terminate a visitor’s access to and use of the Website if, under appropriate circumstances, the visitor is determined to be a repeat infringer of the copyrights or other intellectual property rights of company_short_name or others. In the case of such termination, company_short_name will have no obligation to provide a refund of any amounts previously paid to company_short_name.
9. Intellectual Property
This Agreement does not transfer from company_short_name to you any company_short_name or third party intellectual property, and all right, title and interest in and to such property will remain (as between the parties) solely with company_short_name. company_short_name, company_domain, the company_domain logo, and all other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with company_domain, or the Website are trademarks or registered trademarks of company_short_name or company_short_name’s licensors. Other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with the Website may be the trademarks of other third parties. Your use of the Website grants you no right or license to reproduce or otherwise use any company_short_name or third-party trademarks.
10. Advertisements
company_short_name reserves the right to display advertisements on your content unless you have purchased an Ad-free Upgrade or a Services account.
11. Attribution
company_short_name reserves the right to display attribution links such as ‘Powered by company_domain,’ theme author, and font attribution in your content footer or toolbar. Footer credits and the company_domain toolbar may not be removed regardless of upgrades purchased.
12. Changes
company_short_name reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to modify or replace any part of this Agreement. It is your responsibility to check this Agreement periodically for changes. Your continued use of or access to the Website following the posting of any changes to this Agreement constitutes acceptance of those changes. company_short_name may also, in the future, offer new services and/or features through the Website (including, the release of new tools and resources). Such new features and/or services shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
13. Termination
company_short_name may terminate your access to all or any part of the Website at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective immediately. If you wish to terminate this Agreement or your company_domain account (if you have one), you may simply discontinue using the Website. All provisions of this Agreement which by their nature should survive termination shall survive termination, including, without limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of liability.
14. Disclaimer of Warranties
The Website is provided “as is”. company_short_name and its suppliers and licensors hereby disclaim all warranties of any kind, express or implied, including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. Neither company_short_name nor its suppliers and licensors, makes any warranty that the Website will be error free or that access thereto will be continuous or uninterrupted.
15. Limitation of Liability
In no event will company_short_name, or its suppliers or licensors, be liable with respect to any subject matter of this agreement under any contract, negligence, strict liability or other legal or equitable theory for: (i) any special, incidental or consequential damages; (ii) the cost of procurement for substitute products or services; (iii) for interruption of use or loss or corruption of data; or (iv) for any amounts that exceed the fees paid by you to company_short_name under this agreement during the twelve (12) month period prior to the cause of action. company_short_name shall have no liability for any failure or delay due to matters beyond their reasonable control. The foregoing shall not apply to the extent prohibited by applicable law.
16. General Representation and Warranty
You represent and warrant that (i) your use of the Website will be in strict accordance with the company_short_name Privacy Policy, Community Guidelines, with this Agreement and with all applicable laws and regulations (including without limitation any local laws or regulations in your country, state, city, or other governmental area, regarding online conduct and acceptable content, and including all applicable laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the country in which this website resides or the country in which you reside) and (ii) your use of the Website will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of any third party.
17. Indemnification
You agree to indemnify and hold harmless company_short_name, its contractors, and its licensors, and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of your use of the Website, including but not limited to your violation of this Agreement.
18. Miscellaneous
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between company_short_name and you concerning the subject matter hereof, and they may only be modified by a written amendment signed by an authorized executive of company_short_name, or by the posting by company_short_name of a revised version. Except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise, this Agreement, any access to or use of the Website will be governed by the laws of the state of California, U.S.A., excluding its conflict of law provisions, and the proper venue for any disputes arising out of or relating to any of the same will be the state and federal courts located in San Francisco County, California. Except for claims for injunctive or equitable relief or claims regarding intellectual property rights (which may be brought in any competent court without the posting of a bond), any dispute arising under this Agreement shall be finally settled in accordance with the Comprehensive Arbitration Rules of the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Service, Inc. (“JAMS”) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with such Rules. The arbitration shall take place in San Francisco, California, in the English language and the arbitral decision may be enforced in any court. The prevailing party in any action or proceeding to enforce this Agreement shall be entitled to costs and attorneys’ fees. If any part of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, that part will be construed to reflect the parties’ original intent, and the remaining portions will remain in full force and effect. A waiver by either party of any term or condition of this Agreement or any breach thereof, in any one instance, will not waive such term or condition or any subsequent breach thereof. You may assign your rights under this Agreement to any party that consents to, and agrees to be bound by, its terms and conditions; company_short_name may assign its rights under this Agreement without condition. This Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the parties, their successors and permitted assigns.Believe me, when I say that Do Not Disturb mode is one of the less used features on Android. That’s because either people haven’t discovered it correctly, or they haven’t learned how they can make the most out of this powerful feature. The majority are just used to the manual ways to get those things done, which Do Not Disturb could do automatically.
In a nutshell, the Do Not Disturb (DND) feature lets you instruct your phone about how and when you want to receive updates about incoming notifications, calls, and alerts. You have complete control over it, and you can customize which notifications and calls you want to get alerts for when Do Not Disturb mode is enabled. You can even schedule it to make things automated.
I will talk and discuss more about it below:
What Does Do Not Disturb Mode Do On Android?
Most of the Android phone and tablet manufacturers have now started including the Do Not Disturb function right into the OS. In case they forget, Android makes sure the DND mode is there, considering how useful it really is.
The feature is compelling and, once enabled, will allow you to take a break from your phone and concentrate on the life outside by putting unwanted notifications and calls entirely out of your sight for any of your specified schedules.
Basically, DND mode puts your mobile phone on silent during certain times of the day except for some of your favorite contacts and apps, which are essential for you and you don’t want to miss.
By setting up schedules, the DND function will automatically enable and disable itself based on the preferences you have set and configured. Because obviously, there is no reason to let your smartphone control your life, and you should be the one controlling it.
There are various moments when I believe you should be scheduling DND on your phone, which includes bedtime, mealtime, meetings, and while you are working. You can even enable it manually during those moments when you need some time away from notifications.
What The Differences Are Between Do Not Disturb Vs. Silent?
The differences are significant between the two.
Do Not Disturb can be customized and scheduled. You can select and personalize whose calls and notifications you want to receive and what notifications you want to block when DND mode is enabled. You can set up timings and schedules when you want it to be enabled and disabled, and everything will happen automatically. Even your phone’s display will not wake up.
Whereas on the other hand, Silent mode cannot be customized or scheduled. Once enabled, it will put all the calls and every single notification on silent. Your phone will not ring or buzz for anything. Silent mode needs to be enabled and disabled manually. Upon the arrival of any message, notification, or phone call, your phone’s display will wake up.
How Do I Turn Off Or Turn On Do Not Disturb?
Turning DND on or off is really simple. Just a 1-2-3 step. And won’t take more than a couple of seconds. Here’s how:
- Unlock your Android mobile phone.
- Swipe down from the top of your screen to open the notifications menu.
- Tap Do Not Disturb.
On your notifications bar, if you see a circle sign with a dash inside, that means the Do Not Disturb function is enabled. If there is no sign, then it means it’s disabled.
If there is no shortcut icon or option to enable Do Not Disturb in the notifications menu, then here is an alternative method to go to Do Not Disturb settings on Android:
- When you are on the home screen, swipe down from the top of the screen to open the notification drawer.
- Tap on the Settings gear icon.
- Tap on the Sound & Vibration section.
- Here you should be able to find the Do Not Disturb option.
That’s how easy the whole process is.
How Can I Properly Set Up Do Not Disturb?
By properly setting up Do Not Disturb on your Android, you can put a limit on the interruptions caused by certain app notifications, calls, and messages.
Here is a guide on how to set up DND on your phone:
NOTE: Settings and menu may differ depending on your phone manufacturer and Android OS running on your device.
- Open Settings app on your device.
- Find and tap on Sound & Vibration.
- Here you should be able to find the Do Not Disturb option. Tap it.
- In the section, What Can Interrupt Do Not Disturb, you can easily choose what you want to allow and what you want to block. It’s like an exceptions list.Apps – Select which app can send you notifications and which cannot.People – Allow or block calls, messages, and notifications from specific contacts or favorites only.Alarms – You can block/allow sounds like alarm, reminders, other sounds like touch, and calendar notifications.Repeated Callers – Automatically allow any callers to bypass DND, who calls you twice within 15 minutes.
That is all you have to do to set up this function.
How Do I Schedule Do Not Disturb?
You can enable DND from the notifications drawer or through the Settings menu, both of which we have already mentioned in the previous section. However, scheduling is another way to automatically enable Do Not Disturb on Android during a specific time of the week, as per your requirements.
Here is how you can do it:
- Go to the Settings app on your Android device.
- Tap on the Sounds & Vibration option, then tap on Do Not Disturb.
- Tap on Turn on as scheduled.
- Tap on the Off button to enable scheduling. It should show On and allow you to configure scheduling settings.
- The schedule settings include the option to select days of the week and the option to choose the Start time and End time.
- Once you have entered all the schedule data, tap on Done.
It is important to note here that scheduling does not allow you to set up multiple schedules for a single day. Which means you can only select only one start and end time for any day of the week.
Just set it and forget it. Android will now take care of DND for you.
How Does Do Not Disturb Turns On By Itself?
In this section, I am going to help you find out and fix why Android devices go to Do Not Disturb mode automatically, why it keeps turning on, and how exactly you can stop it from happening randomly.
The first thing you need to check is whether the automatic DND scheduler is enabled or disabled. To check that, check out the previous section where I have already discussed about Do Not Disturb schedule.
Secondly, most of the Android devices have a DND shortcut placed right at the notifications drawer, which is prone to be activated accidentally while you are checking notifications or toggling other settings from the notifications area. So you can try removing the Do Not Disturb shortcut access from the notifications.
Thirdly, you can try the method I have given in the next section related to Android Special Access settings.
Do Not Disturb Automatic Rules Not Working
I remember when my Android mobile phone got upgraded to Android 8 Oreo, my already set up and perfectly working Do Not Disturb scheduling and automatic rules started acting up. Sometimes my phone used to stay in DND mode, although it has been scheduled to turn off. I had to turn it off manually.
Then after playing and fiddling with settings here and there, I figured out about a new option, i.e., Special Access settings. It is located right inside the Apps settings. When you tap on the menu button located at the top-right corner, there is an option called Do not disturb permission.
Tap on it, and you will see a list of apps that have access to the Do not disturb functionality, and apps with access can enable/disable DND mode based on your preferences set up within that specific app.
What I actually did here is to give special access to the Google app. And voila, it fixed my issue. If you have any other questions, a query related to Android Do Not Disturb mode, or in case the above solutions did not help to fix the issue, then please feel free to drop your question in the comments below, and I will help you out.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidMobile Phones
LG Phones Anything and everything related to the LG Android Phones can be discussed here with the community. Share your problems, queries, and experiences about your LG phone. Samsung A section where you can discuss about all the Samsung Android phones and tablet devices, and ask for help related to any of your Samsung devices including S-series, A-series, and Note series.
|Topic||Replies||Views||Activity|
|About the Mobile Phones category||0||563||March 8, 2017|
|Asus 6 camera rattles when rotate||0||44||September 24, 2020|
|How to disable the Bixby Button on Samsung Galaxy S8, S8+ & Note 8?||4||1158||September 17, 2020|
|How to Turn Off Auto Correct On Samsung Galaxy S7 And S8||5||889||June 22, 2020|
|LG V10 Not Charging||5||683||May 21, 2020|
|Which Is The Best Android Phone Of 2018?||12||858||May 12, 2020|
|Samsung Galaxy S6 Won't Charge||8||897||March 27, 2020|
|Incoming calls contact display||4||401||February 14, 2020|
|No ringtones on Galaxy S7?||3||465||February 14, 2020|
|OnePlus 5 vs OnePlus 5T – which one should I get?||8||806||June 25, 2019|
|Samsung Galaxy S5 Keeps Restarting||5||720||January 30, 2018|
|Rooting the LG Stylo 2||3||750||January 4, 2018|Are you looking for a working Clash of Clans mod apk to hack the in-game resources and get unlimited gems, elixir, and coins? You can then use those resources to quickly level up your village without spending any real cash and get ahead of your enemies. 😉
If you are interested in the CoC mod apk for Android then continue reading this post as we have listed all the details about the Clash of Clans modded version along with all the resources that you would be able to get for free. And you don’t need to root your Android phone/tablet for this mod.
We know Clash of Clans mobile game is designed in such a way that makes it hard for you to quickly build your village, collect resources, and form a strong army to battle with your enemy.
But now you don’t need to worry, the mod apk we are going to share and discuss here will help you get endless amount of gems, coins, and elixir that will ultimately help you build strong village, strong base, and durable troops so that you can defeat all those enemy bases and earn lots of trophies.
Clash of Clans Mod APK Unlimited GEMs
Clash of Clans is a highly successful strategy based mobile game developed by Supercell. The game has gained a lot of traction and popularity among online mobile gamers. It requires you to prepare your base strategically by placing your buildings, resource units, defensive structures along with the traps to minimize damage to your base and stop enemy troops from looting your resources.
We won’t be discussing much related to the original Clash of Clans as the majority of you are already aware of it, however, for those of you who are interested, we do have a detailed information as well as the apk file for the original game available here.
Anyways, if you have played the game then you must be aware that resources like coins and elixir are the fuel for the game and are required to build and upgrade buildings. Both of these resources can be produced as well as looted from enemy’s bases.
Apart from elixir and coins, there is another resource which is tough to earn and cannot be looted. You must have guessed it already.
Yes, it is gems. 🙂
Gems are the most valuable and hard to earn resource in Clash of Clans. Collecting them requires a lot of patience. And it is the only resource that can help you speed up your upgrade and let you quickly build new buildings without waiting for the builder to complete the work. You can even use it as a substitute for coins/elixir.
Despite the fact that all these resources are hard to collect, the Clash of Clans mod apk will get you infinite gems, coins, and elixir without spending a single cent. All you need to do is download and install the hacked version apk on your Android device.
Download Clash of Clans Mod APK
You can download the latest version of Clash of Clans mod apk for your Android smartphone and tablet devices from the direct download link given below and enjoy unrestricted access to the elixir, gold, and gems.LG Phones - Best Android Forum - Get Solutions & Fixes to Android ProblemsDownload Subway Surfers Mod APK For Android
Asphalt 8 Airborne APK + Mod + OBB Data
Download Clash of Clans Modded APK [Unlimited Gems, Coins, Elixir]
GTA San Andreas APK + Mod + OBB Data Complete
GTA San Andreas APK for Android so if you are you a hardcore Grand Theft Auto fan and looking to…
Download Modded Google Play Store [Patch+Mod+Installer]
The modified, patched, and a modded Google Play Store apk is one of the most called for apps among Android…Are you looking for a quick and easy Candy Crush Saga mod apk with all the levels and episodes unlocked from the very beginning of the game along with unlimited moves, lives, free switches, lollipop hammers, increased time for timed levels and everything else to help you complete levels with the highest score?
Look no further, here we have brought you the ultimate Candy Crush Saga mod apk that gives you everything unlimited as well as all the levels are unlocked too. You can safely use the provided apk, which will help you get highest scores in every level so that you can beat your friends easily. 😉
Continue reading, as in this article we will reveal what in-game items and features are hacked and what you can do with this free Candy Crush Saga cracked apk.
About Candy Crush Saga Mod APK
In case you don’t know, Candy Crush Saga is one of the most popular and widely played puzzle adventure game for Android phones and tablet devices with hundreds of levels. The puzzling nature of the game is what makes it addictive where you need to match three or more candies of the same color to earn points and gain additional bonus points when they burst.
When you match four or more candies of the same color then you will get a unique powerful candy. This special candy has the ability to pop a large number of candies. And you can even match two powerful candies, which will clear many candies and give you points boost.
But there a catch:
To clear the level, you must need to earn the required amount of points within given number of moves/switches. For example, in level 1 you need to make at least 300 points within 6 moves. You can make as many points as you can but 300 is the minimum you need to make to successfully clear the level.
That is not all.
To help you clear that hard-to-beat and challenging level, there are various types of boosters that you can purchase from the store and can be activated during gameplay. Booster includes Jelly Fish, Coconut Wheel, Color Bomb, Striped and Wrapped, Lucky Candy, 5 Extra Moves, Lollipop Hammer, Free Switch, Bomb Cooler, Sweet Teeth, and Extra Time.
As if that’s not enough:
To further make the game tougher, you get five lives during the beginning of the game. Losing a level will result in losing a life. And to earn back one free life you will need to wait 30 minutes. You can also purchase a pack of five lives or request your friend to send you one.
Want to know the best part?
The Candy Crush Saga mod apk will get you unlimited boosters and unlimited lives for free so that you can enjoy the game as long as you want. There will be zero limitation. You will also get over 100 moves to complete each level, which means the highest score at every level. All of that without spending a single dime. 😀
Now, before I share with you the incomparable features of the mod and hack version of Candy Crush Saga, we will first tell you about the different puzzle modes available in the game.
Candy Crush Saga Game Modes
To make the game interesting and challenging, developers have added various game modes that appear randomly as you pass through different chapters:
Moves & Score: The original game mode where you have limited number of moves. You need make required score before running out of moves else, you will fail.
Ingredients: As you pass through the chapters, in some levels, you will come across ingredients like cherries and hazelnuts, and you will see a number of ingredients you must need to collect to be able to clear the level.
Jelly: You will see some boxes are covered in jelly; this is where you need to remove all those jellies by matching candy located right on top of it. Successfully doing so will help you clear the level.
Time Limited: This game mode will give you limited time to clear the level, and you must need to earn at least one star before the timer runs out otherwise you will fail.
Candy Order: This mode is similar to that of ingredients but here you are required to collect a specific type of candies to win the level.
Candy Crush Saga Mod & Crack APK Features
The Candy Crush Saga cracked and modded version will give you the following boosters and enhanced features:
Infinite Lives: You will never run out of life.
Unlimited Moves: More than hundred moves to complete each level.
Endless Lollipop Hammer: You will get unlimited Lollipop Hammer booster.
Endless Free Switches: Gives you unlimited Free Switches booster.
Bigger Time Limitations: Timer for all the time limited game modes is set to five minutes.
Delay Bomb Counter: Bomb counter-related levels usually have very less move counts, but this mod will set it to explode after more than eighty moves.
Level Unlock: All levels will be unlocked from the beginning.
Episode Unlock: All episodes will be unlocked from the beginning.
Facebook Connect: Ability to sync and save your game progress by connecting with your Facebook account.
Candy Crush Saga Mod APK Demo Pictures
You can see the animated demo pictures (GIF format) where we have shown some of the Candy Crush Saga mods in action:
Up date please the hack is for old apk!
Hi @pinadeluca:disqus, hack for the latest version of Candy Crush Saga apk (v1.112.1.1) is now uploaded. Have fun! 🙂
how does this work?
It doesn’t
NOT! No hack or mod in thE download. Just a regular game app. 👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
I bought a Samsung smart TV for my bedroom a few weeks ago and although it has Netflix I was wondering how one can install Play Store and any other third-party apps in the smart TV if there is no Google Play Store installed/found in the TV.Hello, My smartphone stuck in a boot loop after a factory reset. I had tried to get in into recovery mode but power + Volume down button dint work and phone continue to boot again and again.Can anyone tell me what can i do??I was getting bored in this lockdown situation. No university no fun with friends. I was fed up of all this type of boring routine But then My friend suggests some new good online games. Multi-speed Light Super Hero is really a good game full of excitement and thrills. If you also bore in this situation try some good online games.All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
Almost every Android phone and device comes equipped with a Google app and voice search assistant, and once that is…
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
Believe me, when I say that Do Not Disturb mode is one of the less used features on Android. That’s…
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android
Writing a thesis involves a great deal of time, concentration, and research. Thirty years ago, working on a thesis meant…
7 Best English Learning Apps for Android
Best Android apps that can help you learn English quickly and easily. Language is a communication skill, and anyone can…
Fly GPS/Fake GPS APK Pokemon GO Location Hack
Fly GPS apk is available for download for Android that can help you spoof your location in the Pokemon GO…
How to Change Spotify Username [Guide]
A step-by-step guide on how to change Spotify username on Android, iPhone, iPad, Windows, or Mac devices. We have shared…
Fix Common VPN Issues [Troubleshooting Guide]
VPN is an essential internet tool that increases your safety and privacy online.
6 Best App Killer Task Manager for Android
Best app killer and task manager apps for Android to help fix your resource-hungry and slow phone. Did your Android device become slow and started to drain a lot of battery power lately? But you don’t know what to do? We have a possible solution for you…
Best Chat Room Apps to Meet New People Online
Best chat room apps to meet new people online and go on dates. Have you ever thought about finding new…
16 Best Video Chat Apps for Free Calls
Best video chat apps for free calls on Android – Are you looking for a way to have one-on-one video…
13 Free Best Android Clock Widgets
Best Android Clock Widgets are reviewed here. If you are in search of best clock widgets that come with personalization capabilities to suit your Android home screen better to make it stylish, then you are at the right place.
Best Pokemon Go Joystick Spoof GPS Hacks
Best Pokemon Go joystick spoof GPS hacks and apps are reviewed here. If you are looking for some of the best location spoofing apps that work with Pokemon game, then you have come to the right place as here we have an ultimate list of working Pokemon Go location hacks for Android.
30 Pokemon Go Discord Servers for Sniping, Raiding, Battles
Are you looking for the best sources to find coordinates for Pokemon sniping? You have come to the right place…
10 Best Calendar Apps to Stay Organized
Best Calendar apps for Android to help you stay organized. Are you in search of the best calendar app that is easy to use, lightweight, and satisfies all of your requirements to keep yourself on schedule? You have come to the right spot!
10 Best Keyboard Apps for Android
Best Keyboard apps for Android, are you tired of the default keyboard app that comes preinstalled on your Android and looking for something with more features and customizability? This article will help you out!|About the Android Q/A category || ||0 ||698 ||March 4, 2017 |
|How to Convert Apple Music to MP3 || ||2 ||58 ||October 13, 2020 |
|How to Download and Convert Spotify Music to MP3 || ||5 ||286 ||September 29, 2020 |
|Phone stuck in a boot loop and recovery mode is unaccessable || ||1 ||114 ||September 28, 2020 |
|How to Root Android Mobile Phone Without PC || ||9 ||724 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Rog phone 3 isn't connecting to WIFI automatically || ||1 ||79 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Galaxy s7 edge battery draining while charging || ||20 ||749 ||September 22, 2020 |
|How To Transfer Apps Between Android Devices || ||11 ||823 ||September 17, 2020 |
|How to Transfer Pictures from Your Android Device to PC || ||10 ||978 ||September 15, 2020 |
|I want to access Spotify abroad. Any way to bypass country restriction? || ||9 ||40826 ||September 4, 2020 |
|How to install Showbox on Android Phone and Tablet? || ||6 ||2588 ||August 27, 2020 |
|How To Stop Notification Sounds From Interrupting Music || ||8 ||571 ||August 13, 2020 |
|How to Download Music from Soundcloud & Spotify on Mobile Phone? || ||29 ||8939 ||August 11, 2020 |
|How to delete deezer account? || ||2 ||132 ||July 19, 2020 |
|My Android Phone Is Not Ringing At All || ||7 ||585 ||July 15, 2020 |
|How to remove subtitles from netflix on Android TV || ||3 ||151 ||June 28, 2020 |
|How To Download Facebook Videos? || ||18 ||1460 ||June 17, 2020 |
|Whatsapp Voice Call Not Ringing || ||9 ||27880 ||May 18, 2020 |
|How Can I Use Facetime on Android? || ||7 ||1179 ||May 12, 2020 |
|Many incompatible apps on Xiaomi Mi Mix 2 || ||4 ||634 ||April 28, 2020 |
|My android phone battery is draining too fast || ||15 ||591 ||April 8, 2020 |
|Which Apps Do You Use First When You Wake Up || ||14 ||1075 ||May 30, 2019 |
|Galaxy s7 randomly reboots || ||20 ||672 ||March 12, 2020 |
|Com.android.phone has stopped || ||0 ||177 ||January 30, 2020 |
|Mi TV box linked device || ||1 ||272 ||November 8, 2019 |
|How to Enable Guest Mode on Samsung Phones? || ||6 ||11855 ||September 18, 2019 |
|Unable To Play Video Files On My Tablet || ||7 ||613 ||September 4, 2019 |
|How to send files from Android to Windows without USB? || ||2 ||420 ||September 4, 2019 |
|How to unlock kt service provider to other networks? || ||1 ||403 ||July 26, 2019 |
|How To Turn Off Pop-up Notification In Whatsapp? || ||6 ||648 ||July 4, 2019 |Live NetTV apk for Android phone and tablet devices enables you to watch different TV channels from all around the world for free without paying a premium. If you are a follower of sports and entertainment channels and do not intend to pay for the individual subscriptions to watch your favorite channels, then you should download Live NetTV on your Android and enjoy over 800+ channels.
Yes, you have read it right. Live NetTV provides an integrated multimedia platform with hundreds of live TV channels with zero subscription fee. You do not need to spend so much money on buying individual subscriptions from cable TV and do not need to waste any time keeping track of their monthly billing cycle.
Download Live NetTV, install the app on your Android phone and begin enjoying endless TV channels that can be streamed right on your Android available free for lifetime.
About Live NetTV APK
Live NetTV is packed with unlimited features with daily channel updating and favorite channel requests. It is a fantasy world for TV fans who want to enjoy free TV subscription on their Android phones.
With a channel variety of more than 800 channels, this app is considered to the top-level free online TV for Android. It comes with external player support that allows users to play the channels on any of personally preferred media player.
Live Net TV has simplified our lives by integrating hundreds of channels from different categories, including entertainment, food, drama, and sports on one consolidated platform to facilitate its users. Life becomes so much fun and easy with free access to global channels.
If you cannot find your favorite channel, then just request the desired channel from within the app, and the developers will grant your wish. It comes with bundles of features; some of them are new channel notification to keep an eye on the latest channels being added and frequent updates.
The app serves as a genie for the TV fans that gives them the freedom to watch worldwide channels in high-definition. You can also watch video-on-demand (VOD), where there are famous movies as well as live channels.
It is effortless to download the Live NetTV app. It does not require any sign-up process or any subscription information. You can simply download the apk and then install it on your Android device.
Once installed, you will see the interface, and you can now watch your favorite programs whenever and wherever you want. The home screen is quite interactive, and you can select any program from the given list or search for the channel using the search bar. The best part is that it provides the most relevant channels according to your current region.
There are different tabs on the upper bar with headings like entertainment, 24/7 channels, and sports. The 24/7 channels are the ones that are played on the cable TV or other TV subscriptions where hundreds of programs are on-aired. This is the only TV channel app that integrates all these channels.
There is a button on the top left side corner that leads you to the different playback options, which include live channels, live events, and VOD.
VOD stands for Video On Demand, where you can request for the favorite movies and videos from across the globe. The movies are displayed in different categories like English, Hollywood, and Indian movies. You can select any movie from VOD and then play on one of the supported external players.
The live events bar displays a long list of events happening worldwide, which includes world snooker championship, F1 race, Moto GT race, Tennis, Cricket, County Champs, and many more. The events are organized according to date so you can watch the live events happening that day or mark the coming events on the calendar.
As Live NetTV is a global live TV channel app, it checks the device time with Greenwich Time and lists down the live events. The events are streamed live from the source so you won’t be able to watch them before or after the live streaming.
The app comes with different options in the settings, so it is essential to familiarize ourselves with them. Since you can personalize the entire TV platform according to personal preferences so you are provided with options to lock the settings to enforce restricted access to the settings. You can even set the password for the settings menu so no one can modify them.
Live NetTV Support for Chromecast
Interestingly, Live NetTV app comes with Chromecast support that allows the user to stream any channel right on their TV. The feature is designed to connect directly with your TV so you can enjoy the channels on a bigger screen.
There are different TV cast features too, like LocalCast or WebVideoCast, that allows supports the channel casting on the TV screen. It comes with support for multiple external players so the users can play the videos on their favorite players, including Android player, MX, or another player supported on Android devices.
Here we have a complete list of external players supported by Live NetTV for Android:
- MX Player,
- XYZ Player,
- Lua Player,
- Android Player,
- Video Player,
- XMTV Player,
- LocalCast,
- BubbleUPnPCast,
- WebVideoCast.
Personalization Options in Live NetTV for Android
Live NetTV apk allows you to perform the following personalization to enhance your live TV streaming experience further:
- The font style can be modified according to personal choices.
- Categorize the live events’ tab according to the preferences. For example, if you like sports, then its tab can be set first on priority.
- There are different categories of movies and videos available in the video-on-demand tab. You can set the order of the tabs according to their choices and likings.
- Hide or unhide VOD or live events categories. For instance, if you are not interested in English movies or tennis games, then you can simply hide these tabs.
- It depends on the user to hide the video content from particular countries.
- Live NetTV provides an option to choose stream quality.
- There is an experimental feature that allows the auto-launch of the app on the Android startup.
- There are multiple tabs like VOD, live events, and 24/7 live channels on the home screen. You can set a favorite tab on priority so that you don’t miss your favorite videos.
- There is a list of categories, including Indian, English, Pakistani, and other options. You can simply long click on the category, and drag and drop at the required position.
- Select a by-default video player or can choose to select a player before playing any video.
- You can choose to enable notifications for the live events so that you don’t miss the live streaming of your events happening worldwide.
Live NetTV is a consolidated platform comprising of multiple links from various applications. There are numerous links embedded behind the videos and movies so the user can select from different links. The user can switch between different connections if any of the links are not working correctly.
The app keeps on updating the video links so that the user does not face any inconvenience. Moreover, the user can report any broken connection and the complaint is then directed to the technical team to rectify the problem.
Live NetTV is the only platform that gives freedom to the users to request for any channel not available. There is a dedicated search bar at the top of the home screen to search for the channels or movies not displayed in the given categories. If the user cannot find the desired channel, then one can simply request for the channel by clicking on the Channel Request option.
Features of Live NetTV for Android
Live NetTV is a feature-rich Android app that offers not only live TV streaming for hundreds of channels but also provides numerous features, which includes:
- A free of cost lifetime access to more than 800 global TV channels.
- Multiple options and categories of movies, sports, video-on-demand, and other live events with category customization.
- You are provided with options to use different players supported by the Android device.
- Live NetTV apk can be connected with the TV via Chromecast.
- You have an option to request for any channel if it is not available on the given list.
- There are different links embedded behind channels and movies. You can switch between the links if any of the links do not work properly.
- A broken link can be reported to the technical team to fix the issue.
- Customize the platform according to personal preferences.
- The movies, channels, and live events can be categorized into different positions and ranks.
- Watch all the live events happening around the world along with an active list of upcoming events so you can mark these events on your calendar.Spotify account,
Internet connectivity to stream music.
You can download APK file from the link below.
Previous Versions
Spotify Premium apk mod latest version for Android available for download to help you enjoy endless music without interruption. In this blog post, you will learn the following:
A download link to quickly get Spotify Premium cracked and modded version for Android no root, which is available for free to download.
A brief guide on how to download and install it on your Android phone and tablet devices and enjoy unlimited music for free.
Spotify Premium gives you unlimited skips, blocks advertisements, play any music from any playlist, no shuffle, offline listening experience, premium sound quality, and a lot more.
For Spotify offline listening and downloading music, please check the section “How to download music from Spotify.”
At the end of this article, we have shared frequently asked questions (FAQs), where we have answered all of your questions and queries.
We know the Spotify free version gets annoying to use because of limitations like limited song skips, no permission to listen to music in high (extreme) quality, and shows a lot of visual/audio ads in between the songs. All of which completely ruins the music listening experience.
But you don’t have to worry anymore as the mod and cracked Spotify Premium version will help you get almost all the premium features without paying the premium subscription fee.
Spotify mod will unlock all the premium features, including unlimited skips, ability to play any song from the playlist, unlimited shuffle, block all ads, option to enable high-quality music playback with seek bar enabled.
With that being said, if you were searching for the 100% working modded Spotify app that offers premium features, then your search is finally over as here you are going to learn about how to download, install, and get Spotify premium apk for free on Android.
What Is Spotify and How Spotify Premium APK Works?
We all are very well aware that Spotify Premium is a modded and cracked version of the free Spotify online music streaming service where you can find music, song, podcast, audiobooks, novels, poetry, comedy, soundtrack, and whatnot. Every soundtrack that is suitable for any moment of your life is available.
You can quickly search for songs, discover new music, and play your favorite titles.
Share your favorite soundtracks with your friends for free without any restrictions.
It gives you instant access to the world of music.
Find any music from any genre –from old classic songs and vintage radio to the latest hits.
Create your personalized playlists for podcasts or music.
Discover music based on your mood or your recent song listening activity.
All you need to do is hit the play button and start streaming any music you like from any genre on your Android phone and tablet devices.
Download Spotify Premium Mod APK for Android
You can download the latest Spotify Premium app for your Android smartphone and tablet devices from download links already given at the beginning of this page.
The Spotify Premium apk shared with you is thoroughly checked, free from viruses, verified, secure, and safe to install and use on any Android device. We always make sure to update this page with the latest version so if you are one of those who always want to have the newest version, then we will recommend you to bookmark this page.
Psst… You can get Spotify Premium for free not only on Android but all of your phone and computer devices including iPhone on iOS, Mac OS, and Windows PC using our ultimate guide. 😉
And don’t forget that we at BestForAndroid do not support piracy in any way, and the provided app is only for demo and educational purposes.
Spotify Mod Info
Based on the unlocked mod (Credits MrDude) with the following features:
Unlocked Spotify Connect,
Visual ads blocked,
Audio ads blocked,
Seeking enabled,
Unlimited shuffle,
Choose any song,
Extreme audio unlocked,
Repeats enabled,
Canvas enabled,
Storyline enabled,
Disabled/Removed unwanted Permissions + Receivers and Services,
Analytics/Crashlytics disabled.
How to Install Spotify Premium APK on Android
Here is a complete step-by-step guide to assist you with the downloading and installation process of Spotify Premium app on Android:
DISCLAIMER: We at BestForAndroid will not be held responsible if Spotify terminates or suspends your account due to the usage of the Spotify Premium mod app. All information provided here is strictly for educational purposes, and we are not responsible for how you decide to use the information provided.
Download the latest version of Spotify Premium apk from the download link given in the beginning.
For safety purposes, the file you downloaded will be in a zip format. You need to use the built-in file manager or any file explorer of your choice to extract/unzip the file.
Once unzipped/extracted, now tap on the extracted apk file to begin the installation. The file will be named as com.spotify.music.apk.
Depending on the version of Android OS running on your phone, you may see a warning message that says, “For your security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source.” Tap on the Settings button.
A new menu will open with an option that says, Allow from this source. Tap on the toggle switch right next to it to enable the installation.
Now go back to the installation screen. You will see a list of all the permissions required by the app (if there is any). Tap on the Install button.
Tap on the Open button to launch the Spotify Premium app.
Now to sign in to your Spotify account, you will need to log in using your Spotify credentials, i.e., your email address and password. If you don’t already have an account, then we will recommend you to create one. Otherwise, you can also use the Facebook Connect option.
Once you are logged in to Spotify, you should then be able to enjoy the premium features. Which includes playing any music from the playlist, unlimited skips, extreme sound quality streaming along with other premium features we have already mentioned in the Spotify Premium features section below.
If, in any case, you are unable to log in to Spotify then we will recommend you to check the FAQs section at the end of this article where we have a troubleshooting guide to help you fix all the known issues.
How to Download Music from Spotify?
Having the Spotify Premium mod will never let you download music from Spotify for offline listening because those features require a direct connection to the Spotify servers, which you can only get with the Spotify Premium account.
However, we have a 100% working alternative for our readers considering how much each one of you wants to have offline listening and music downloading feature.
So, without any further ado, here is how you can download music from Spotify:
Have you ever heard about Deezer? It is another fantastic music streaming service that offers over 56 million music, podcasts, soundtracks, audio channels, radio stations, and whatnot. You can find more music than Spotify.
And can you guess what the best thing is?
The Deezer will let you download music for offline listening without any limitations, and the mod version will unlock everything for you, unlike Spotify.
To start downloading your whole music playlist for offline listening, all you need to do is to download this free Deezer Premium mod and install it on your device.
It’s that simple. 😉
Features Of Spotify Premium Version
As already mentioned at the beginning, Spotify Premium requires a paid subscription because it offers you some of the best features to make your music listening experience better than ever.
However, with the provided Spotify Premium app, you can enjoy all the paid features without paying a penny; and we will guide you about that in a while.
Here are some of the unique Spotify Premium features you can enjoy:
Download Music And Offline Listening – You are allowed to download your whole playlist (limited to 3,333 tracks) and listen to them even when you are somewhere without active Internet connectivity. Offline listening helps you save a significant amount of Internet data and bandwidth.
Extreme Sound Quality – Each soundtrack is available in three different qualities, i.e., Normal, High, and Extreme. The extreme quality is known as Premium, in which the music is played at 320Kbps, making your music experience more enjoyable and immersive.
Zero Commercial – You can listen to your favorite music and soundtracks without witnessing a single piece of commercial and advertisement, including the removal of audio and visual ads. So, there will be zero interruption in your music listening experience.
Play Any Soundtrack – Yes, the Freemium version does not allow you to skip the track. But with the Spotify Premium apk, you will gain more control over the player as it enables you to play any music you want whenever you want without any limitation. Just find and play.
Unlimited Music Skips – Now, you don’t have to wait for the music to end because you will have the ultimate ability to skip the current music at any time you want and start listening to the next soundtrack on your playlist.
Seeking Enabled – You can easily select, choose, and play any specific part of the music, podcast, or soundtrack as the seek bar is enabled and let you rewind and forward as well.
Unlimited Shuffle – Yes, the Freemium version limits you with shuffling, and you cannot play any soundtrack you want from the playlist. But with the Premium, you will get unlimited shuffle.
Save Storage Space – By online streaming all of your favorite music and soundtracks right from Spotify’s servers, you will be able to save a significant amount of storage space on your device. However, streaming music will consume a bit of your Internet data, so be wise while you are traveling or away from WiFi connectivity to save bandwidth.
Do you know, with this Spotify Premium mod, you can avoid the Spotify country restriction while you are traveling abroad? The procedure is straightforward, and here is a step-by-step guide on how to bypass country restrictions within a matter of minutes and continue enjoying all the premium features regardless of your geolocation 😉
Difference Between Spotify Premium & Spotify Free Version
Spotify Premium has become one of the biggest music streaming service providers. It is well known for providing an excellent online music service that allows you to listen to any music you want. You will find a massive music collection on their online servers.
Officially, there are two options to enjoy music streaming services of Spotify, i.e., Freemium and Premium.
The Spotify Freemium version gives you access to all music and offers:
Unlimited listening time,
Provides a basic set of features,
Shows advertisements,
Does not allow you to download music for offline listening,
The quality of the soundtrack is set to 128kbps.
However, with the Spotify Premium, you will get an interruption-free music listening experience as well as the following:
Zero advertisements,
Blocked audio ads and video ads,
Ability to download music for offline listening,
Play music and songs in extreme high quality, i.e., 320kbps,
Option to seek, rewind, and forward soundtracks,
You can shuffle songs for an unlimited number of times,
Get unlimited skips,
Music repeat option is unlocked,
You get to play any song you want from any playlist,
Log in to your Spotify account using Facebook Connect,
It is essential to mention here that some server-side features cannot be modded and requires you to have a paid Spotify Premium subscription.
How to Get Spotify Premium for Cheap?
If you are a Spotify Premium subscriber then apart from taking advantage of those remarkable features mentioned above, there are a couple of other discounted offers that you may be able to avail if you have plans to stay a Spotify Premium user:
Spotify Premium for Students – Costs about $4.99 per month.
Spotify Premium for Family – Costs about $14.99 per month.
Depending on your conditions, both of these are perfect choices if you want to save some money on the usual premium subscription billing charges.
Even though the pricing of Spotify Premium subscription is affordable and users opt for their premium offer. Still, many cannot pay for Premium even if they want to, because Spotify is not officially available in their country.
And that alone is the key reason why users from those countries are left with no other option but to download Spotify Premium mod for Android and continue enjoying premium features free.
Spotify Premium Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
We at BestForAndroid value our readers the most, we have created this section to quickly guide you and answer all of your frequently asked questions related to Spotify Premium apk.
We have designed this section to help save your time so you won’t have to spend your precious time searching or commenting in the comments section for possible solutions to your problems.
Spotify logged me out automatically and did not let me log in. What is the issue?
All you need to do is clear the cache and data of the Spotify app and then use any VPN app to bypass the login problem.
In case you didn’t understand what we just said above, then follow this simple step-by-step tutorial below:
On your Android, go to Settings and tap on Apps.
In the list of apps, look for Spotify and tap it.
Under the Spotify app info page, tap on Storage.
Tap on the clear data and clear cache to reset the Spotify app (important step).
A popup message will appear. Simply tap Delete.
Download the Browsec VPN app from the Google Play Store and enable VPN (use ‘United States’ as a VPN location).
Launch Spotify and log in using your credentials, and once you are successfully logged in, you can disable the VPN.
Why am I unable to login to Spotify Premium mod app using Facebook Connect?
Spotify mod sometimes interferes with the Facebook app already installed on your Android and shows login error: “there is an error in logging you into this app. Please try again later.”
Here is a quick and simple workaround:
Uninstall or disable the Facebook app on your Android device.
Open the Spotify app and click on Continue with the Facebook button.
A Facebook login page will appear, enter your account credentials and tap on sign in. You should be logged in to your Spotify account.
You can now open the Play Store, download and install the Facebook app again and log in to your Facebook account.
Spotify is not officially available in my country. How can I bypass country restrictions?
Did you see a message that says, “Spotify is not available in your country?” Simply follow our 100% tested and working workaround to bypass Spotify country restriction.First, download and install Spotify Premium mod on your Android using the tutorial given above. Then, head over to our step-by-step guide here, which will help you remove country restrictions and use Spotify Premium app for free on Android.
What is Spotify Premium mod apk, and how does it work?
Spotify Premium is a modified and hacked version of the original Spotify app. It is designed to unlock all the Spotify Premium features without paying for a subscription for an unlimited period on Android devices.
Is it safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk?
Yes, it is completely safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk on Android devices.We always perform thorough tests on Android apps to check for viruses and malicious codes, and we found the Spotify Premium app to be completely safe from viruses and security issues.
Why am I unable to skip songs on Spotify and don’t have unlimited skips?
It usually happens when you already have an official Spotify app installed on your Android device, and then you try to install the Spotify mod app on top of it.The only way to fix this is to first completely uninstall the original Spotify app from your device, then download the Spotify Premium app from the link given at the beginning of this article and do a fresh installation. We already have a detailed installation tutorial above.
Why is Spotify asking to upgrade to Premium when I tried to download music?
Spotify offers two account types, i.e., Free and Premium. Features like offline listening, music, and album downloading are server-sided and directly linked to your Spotify account type.If you have a free Spotify account but using the Spotify mod app as a bypass to enjoy premium features, then you won’t be able to download any music. You need to have a Spotify Premium account too to be able to unlock offline listening and downloading.
How much does it cost to get Spotify Premium for a year?
If you want to purchase Spotify Premium, it will cost you $9.99 per month. The student memberships cost $4.99. Some special offers and discount deals also give you the first three months subscription for under $3.99.
If your question is not answered in this FAQ section or maybe, you have a completely different issue related to Spotify Premium apk mod. In that case, please feel free to leave your query in the comments section below, and someone from our team will get back to you with a working solution.
I’m getting a msg saying install wont complete. Any help?
Which version did you download?
Awesomeness
I am so happy, thank you so much!Hello friends,
I just got a gift from a friend for Xbox , I used the wrong Xbox, I don’t know what to use, I just watch movies and play games, lately I’m seeing Among Us very hot game, I want to play and experience but don’t know how Installing on Xbox can help me with what you know. Thanks very much.Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can't download directly via Google PlayStore. We do not own this app or brand and are not related in any way. All rights are reserved by original owners.
Want to play the most trending game right now? Download this game called Fortnite and go against 99 more players in a single map and try to be the last man standing.
About Fortnite APK
Fortnite is an online video game developed by Epic Games. It was introduced in 2017, and since then it has gained a lot of popularity in the gaming community among all the gamers from platforms including PC, PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, IOS, and Android.
The people who wanted to enjoy playing this game on their phones were waiting for epic games to launch this game for Android and they finally did. The people who couldn’t afford an expensive PC can now enjoy Fortnite on their Android smartphones. They have to check if their Android phones are compatible for downloading Fortnite and download the game.
It is a PVP Player-Vs-Player based game consisting of two different game modes namely, save the world and Battle Royale.
Fortnite: Save the world, is a cooperative shooter-survival game for up to 4 players as a squad to fight zombies like husks and protect their objects from them. You and your three other friends will be the only one in the whole world, as all other 98% of the population of the world disappeared after a storm appeared across the earth.
You’ll have to complete all the missions and tasks. In reward, you’ll get some in-game items which include, hero characters, survivors, weapons, and traps. All of these things can also be leveled up to get their attributes enhanced after you gain more experience in the game.
Fortnite: Battle Royale, is a free-to-play battle royale where up to 100 players land into the map as solo, duo or squads, with only their pickaxes, from a battle bus that starts from one end of the map and stops at another end of the map giving you time to land at your desired location.
You can tap on the map and add a pointer to be sure that you land at your exact location. When you want to jump from the battle bus, you’ll have to tap the jump button, and then you can glide from the sky to your desired location and land on the ground. You’ll have to look through chests and floor loot for guns, ammo, and shields while looking out for enemies near you.
You can even build your base or small huts to protect yourself from enemies. But to do that, you’ll have to farm materials with your pickaxe. There are three kinds of materials that you can carry: wood, brick, and metal which you can get by breaking trees, brick structures, and cars or buses respectively.
All of these materials have their advantages and disadvantages. A wooden structure is the quickest to complete, but it is the weakest from all of them. The brick structure takes a bit more time to complete, but it is stronger than the wooden structure and takes more hits to break while the metal structure takes the longest to complete but is the strongest from all of them and requires much more hits to break.
By going into build mode, you can build walls, ramps, floors, pyramids and place traps. You can also edit these builds by tapping the edit button, and you can edit your walls with a window or a door or both. Edit your ramp to be a single full-size ramp, one-sided stairs or even swirly stairs. You can change the directions of the ramps as well.
After you’ve gathered all of your materials and weapons or even when you are halfway through, you might encounter an enemy. So if he is on a building or a high place, you can build some stairs to that person, and if he is close to you, you can use your shotgun to shoot him.
There are also different game modes in which you can play. These modes include solo, duo, squad, playground and some more different modes that change after every short period.
As the match progresses, there are air-drops that land at different places of the map which give you some shields and an epic or a legendary weapon. There are also some llamas that have been added to the game a while ago. There are only three llamas in a single match, placed at different locations of the map in different matches of the game, and they give you 600 materials (200 materials of every category), some damage traps, shields, and some grenades.
Note: llamas do not give you weapons.
As time goes by, there is a storm that starts coming toward the middle of the map, shown by a pink or red colored circle and it is going to stop at the white outline. Any player left inside the storm is going to take health storm damage and is going to die if he stays there for much longer. The storm damage also increases as the game passes by. Starting from 1 ticker (1 health damage per second) to a 10 ticker.
The storm forces the players to go towards the center and as a result, encouraging more player encounter.
Coming back to the main menu, you can also buy V-Bucks from the in-game store. V-Bucks are a kind of in-game currency for buying skins, emotes, pickaxes and even gliders. The in-game shop is also updated every 24 hours with new things added in every day.
You can also buy a Battle Pass using V-Bucks, which allows you to get some skins and stuff at the start of the season and also get more stuff as you play and complete more and more challenges and go up tears.
The game is also updated every week, and new stuff gets added into the game to make it more interesting. There are also seasons that get updated after every two or three months, and they bring some more new things into the game as well.
Epic games have also told us that they are going to allow some devices to be connected with your Android smartphone to make playing Fortnite easier, like keyboard, mouse or even Xbox or PS4 controller.
It is the most trending game in the world right now which is available for Android smartphones. Download the game with the link given below, get in and try to get that Victory Royale.
Features of Fortnite APK
Here are some of the features of Fortnite APK:
- Free-to-play – Fortnite is free to play for all platforms including Android.
- Lots of challenges and modes – There are a lot of things that get added to the game almost every week including game modes.
- In-game Purchases – You can buy in-game currencies using which you can buy different skins, emotes and even gliders which gets updated almost every day.
- In-game chat – you can use the in-game chat to talk to your friends or your teammates.
This is the link for the Fortnite installer APK and it will not provide the actual game. This installer is going to download Fortnite on your Android phone if its compatible.Pandora cracked mod apk is known by various names including Pandora One, Pandora Radio, and Pandora Internet Radio and it is a renowned music streaming service. If you are looking to get your hands on to the Pandora cracked mod apk for Android then continue reading to learn more about the features and benefits of cracked Pandora apk.
About Pandora Cracked Mod APK
Pandora is a music-streaming app powered by the Music Genome Project. This free music streaming service is well known for providing its listeners with a hand-curated listening experience that is tailor-made for you. The Music Genome Project is an in-depth analysis of music and this is exactly what empowers Pandora to respond to your taste and bring up the tailored music station for you.
Pandora has a team of well-trained musicologists who listens to all types of songs from various genres. They closely study every detail of each soundtrack. And don’t forget that their music study comprises of over 450 musical elements.
All you really need to do is start listening to your favorite artist, genre, or song to create a station and Pandora will automatically develop the same station that progresses around your music taste and provide you with one of a kind music listening experience through the personalized radio.
Pandora music radio streaming service is offered in three different ways, which includes Pandora Plus and Pandora Premium. But here we are going to discuss the Pandora cracked mod apk, using which you can enjoy all the benefits and features of Pandora Plus for free including unlimited skips, infinite replays, ad-free subscription, high-quality audio, music downloader. And the best thing is that you don’t need to have root access on your Android device.
More details about Pandora cracked mod apk are outlined in the features section below.
Features of Pandora Cracked Mod APK
Here are some of the notable features and benefits you will get with the Pandora cracked mod apk:
- Ad-free – You will not see any advertisement while enjoying your favorite music, which gives you an uninterrupted song listening experience.
- Unlimited replays – Gives you the ability to replay an infinite number of times without any restriction.
- Unlimited skips – Gives you indefinite skip so that you can skip any song you don’t like without any problem.
- Music downloader – With music downloader, you can download whatever song, station, or album you want by tapping the thumbs up button and save it on your device in MP3 format then later listen to that music anytime you want.
- Offline listening – You are free to listen to your some of the most played stations even while you are offline and not connected to the Internet so you can stay connected to your music no matter where you go.
- High-quality audio – Gives you an option to listen to streaming music in high-quality 192kbps on your Android device without any charges.
Pandora Cracked APK Demo Screenshot
Here are some screenshots of Pandora cracked mod apk to show how the modified version looks like on Android:
The downloader doesn’t work. Am I doing something wrong?Smartphones add a lot of flexibility to the way people work, live, and consume entertainment. The screen may be smaller, but the impact is still big. This guide explains the different ways to watch movies and series using Android.
There’s no doubt that television is still hugely popular, but not everyone wants to sit in front of the TV. Plus, sometimes it’s occupied by someone else, watching the shows they want to watch. This is where Android comes to the rescue, along with different apps and their vast libraries of shows and movies.
The 4 Ways to Watch Movies With Android
Never say that Android users lack options because there are a few different ways to access movies with this OS. The four main ways are outlined here, though again, more options open up depending on a person’s choice. For instance, there’s a legion of streaming apps to wade through if an Android user decides to download one from an app store. But more on that below. First up, here’s how to access movies and series via Android.
Buy/Rent Movies Through the Google Play Movies & TV App
Google has a movie buying and renting app that’s set up in a similar way to the Google Play Store. It contains a massive library of old and new content that Android users can get access to at any time.
The Google Play Movies & TV app is super simple to use, too, just log in with a Google account where a payment method has been set up and start browsing. The latest releases always show up at the top, and there’s also a recommended list based on previous watches. Users can watch any content they rent through this app for 24 hours.
Watch With Android Streaming Apps
The Google Play Store has a long list of content streaming apps available for download. Some are free, while others are paid. A portion of the free apps offers a limited library with the option to upgrade to a paid version for access to the full library. Other free apps provide a large library of old and new content, though the legality of these apps greatly varies.
8 Best Free and Paid Movie Apps for Android
These are some of the best apps currently out there with which you can watch movies and TV series on any Android device. Many of these apps also support other devices like the Roku or Amazon Fire TV.
1. Popcorn Time
This app works great with Android because it has that classic simple scroll interface with left-hand menu setup. Besides the clean UI, Popcorn Time is popular with Android users all over the world because it relies on torrent files for its content. This means that there’s an extensive library of movies and series to choose from. Plus, no extra torrenting software is needed for it to work.
Download Popcorn Time APK — Free
2. Netflix
A list like this wouldn’t be complete without this streaming giant. Netflix has been around for a long time, and the quality of their content grows every day, along with their library size. Unfortunately, as is the case with most legal streaming sites, different regions get access to different content. This can be overcome by getting a VPN for Android. But, honestly, it’ll take a while to get through all the content already on offer.
3. Amazon Prime Video
Amazon Prime Video hasn’t been around for as long as Netflix has, but it has gained a lot of support since its launch. Thanks to the massive backing behind it, Amazon Prime Video has launched many quality shows of its own and boasts an impressive library. The app isn’t available everywhere yet, but new countries are added to the list every year.
4. Showbox
If any one app could be called the most popular free streaming app, then it would be this one. That title is bestowed unto Showbox thanks to its massive library of content and easy interface. The app doesn’t require its users to sign up, it doesn’t contain annoying ads, and it supports HD quality content.
Download Showbox APK — Free
5. Hulu
Hulu sets itself apart from many other subscription-based streaming sites by offering both on-demand series and movies, as well as live TV. Right now, this service is only open to those living in the US. However, it offers a sizeable library and a very user-friendly UI to those who can access it.
6. Sony Crackle
This is a Sony Entertainment app, but they’ve also partnered with a few other production houses. So the content isn’t just limited to Sony Pictures movies. Sony Crackle is a great and legal way to watch free movies on Android. The only downside here is that there is a ton of advertisements that cannot be skipped – be prepared for that.
7. Tubi TV
If diversity is a dealbreaker, then there’s no better option than Tubi TV. Not only does the app contain popular movies and television shows, but it also hosts an eclectic collection of content. There’s a bit of everything to be found here, from British documentaries to Korean dramas.
8. Terrarium TV
If torrents are out (it’s risky in some countries), then Terrarium TV is the best free alternative to apps like Showbox and Popcorn Time. The app doesn’t rely on torrents to deliver content but hosts all of its movies and shows on cloud servers. On top of that, Terrarium TV boasts a very clean UI and an extensive library of content. In fact, the creators claim that the collection has grown to over 10,000 shows and movies, some of which even come in 4K quality.
Download Terrarium TV APK from https://terrariumtv.co — Free
Watch Movies on YouTube
Watching movies or series episodes via YouTube isn’t always the most reliable option, but it’s still worth mentioning in the list of options to watch movies online. Many people upload full movies or episodes onto the platform, but these videos often get reported and taken down. There’s a chance that someone will be able to catch a movie they have wanted to see on the video-sharing platform before it’s taken down.
Present-day content aside, there is a whole collection of older movies and series that’s been uploaded onto YouTube. These usually don’t get taken down, either because the copyrights have expired or the creators don’t care enough to flag the videos.
Download from Torrent & Transfer to your Phone
This method isn’t strictly “online” as it can be done entirely offline. People can download movies straight onto their phones, but it’s usually easier and quicker to move them through a computer.
There are a couple of ways to go about this, but most people use torrenting programs to download movies or series they want to watch. Just keep in mind that it is illegal for a person to download anything they don’t already own.
After the download is finished, the computer and smartphone can be connected via either a cable or Bluetooth if the PC supports that. The files can then be transferred to the phone and stored in the internal storage or an external SD card if one is installed.
Always Put Mobile Security First
Despite the convenience that comes with using apps for movie streaming, there are many pitfalls to watch out for before opting to watch movies and TV shows online on your Android device.
Due to the demand for streaming apps, many fake or malicious movie streaming apps keep popping up. It can be tough to differentiate between a legitimate app and malware. Especially with the less than legal ones. So many people get tricked into downloading an app that will violate their privacy or safety. These apps may even work as intended, making them none the wiser for a good while.
On the flip side of that dangerous coin are the relatively common safety risks posed by reputable apps. Their developers aren’t out to “get” those who download their apps, but they aren’t doing all they can to ensure the safety of their apps either. Hackers take advantage of the security holes opened up by these insecure apps to infect phones with their malware. Or, as often happens, they simply hack into the app and get access to everything the app has access to.
Unfortunately, there’s no foolproof way of knowing whether an app is safe to use or not. But there are a few things a person can do to lower their risk of becoming a victim:
- Check all the app permissions and deny any permission access that seems irrelevant to the app’s function.
- Activate two-factor authentication on any account that has access to sensitive information, like credit card details.
- Download and install any good VPN for Android like Nord VPN, which you can download from here. This will protect the phone’s internet connection from outsiders latching on.
- Stick to reputable app stores like Google Play and stay away from any third party app stores.
A Final Word
There’s a wide variety of options available to Android users who want to watch movies and shows online. Whether they prefer buying, renting, subscribing to a service, or getting free content —there’s something for everyone.
Yet, as always, the term “free” comes with a price. Getting movies and series for free may seem like a bargain, but those who create these apps need something in return. Yes, advertisements can be a big incentive, but so is the identity or credit card theft. So be sure to take precautions when downloading any new apps, especially if they’re free.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidKodi is one of the greatest entertainment hub ever developed for devices running Android and currently the high demand for the Android TV box (that usually comes preloaded with Kodi) is the reason why the majority of users are looking for a working way to watch live TV channels on their devices. Because it’s free and does not cost a dime to stream a wide range of TV channels from all around the world.
And the best thing is that the Android set-top boxes can be directly connected to your television or projector and you can use it to stream almost any content from the Internet including but not limited to 24/7 live TV channels, TV shows, movies, anime, cartoons, sports, and what not.
Now, to watch and stream live TV channels on Kodi, it is mandatory to download and install IPTV addons that allows you to stream live TV channels. Since there are countless add-ons and the list continues to evolve, at the time of writing this, the following are some of the best live TV Kodi add-ons that will let you stream live TV:
Covenant
Covenant was officially released by The Alpha during July 2017. It has a similar design as the add-on named Exodus. If you have heard about/used Exodus add-on then you must be aware of its discontinuation. And since then, Covenant is the new Exodus. It works perfectly and offers similar but updated streaming HD content.
Even though Exodus is one of the most popular add-ons among those who are looking for live TV streaming, but I will recommend you to try Covenant because it brings the updated list of live TV channel sources, movies, TV shows, and other streamable content right on the Kodi.
Elysium
Elysium was formerly known as Zen add-on and it shares a similar story as Exodus and Covenant. This add-on has some of the biggest active sources for TV shows, old and latest movies, and live TV channels. The add-on is designed to automatically scrape for all the available links to streaming HD content.
For those of you who don’t know, the Zen was originally being developed by Schism but his retirement the NaN (Noobs and Nerds) continued development on this add-on. And to avoid any confusion, they rebranded it as Elysium and started distributing it through their own repository.
Recently, due to increase in the popularity of add-on among Kodi users, the developers behind Elysium are experiencing problems with the API overload that may result in unable to fetch results for movies and TV shows. To avoid this problem, it is recommended to get your own TMDB API key. (We will have a tutorial on this soon).
Stream Hub
Stream Hub add-on, which was previously known as Media Hub, is another very popular Kodi add-on where you can find all the streamable high definition media and HD content for free including live TV channels, movies, TV shows. And all of these contents are scraped from the Internet and provided to you whenever you request.
Similar to how other add-ons work, the content available in Stream Hub is also well categorized and neatly arranged in different sections. This makes it easy for you to find the right type of content without spending too much of your time wandering around the add-on and opening different lists. The basic sections in Stream Hub are Movies, Live TV, Kids Corner, TV Shows, Sports, Anime, For Him, and For Her. Opening any of them will take you to its subsection.
Bob Unleashed
Bob Unleashed add-on is an updated and latest version of what previously known as Bob Unrestricted but that is no longer working now. The add-on is being distributed by (NaN) Noobs and Nerds repository portal.
The add-on provides you with tons of working sources for latest movies and TV shows in HD quality along with the functional live TV channel links. It is currently one of the top and best playlist add-ons currently available for Kodi. And it always provides its users with the great amount of quality content with the neatly organized playlist.
Made in Canada IPTV (MiC IPTV)
Made in Canada is a favorite add-on among Kodi users who are interested in free IPTV Canadian channels including entertainment, sports, news, and drama. The channels scraped by this add-on are available in French and English languages and there is a section for special events too.
The add-on gives you a straight and lag-free access to wide range of HD live TV channels in high quality. According to the users, you will be able to find all the TV channels that are found in the cable TV in Canada. The MiC Kodi add-on is the original source for people who are looking to stream Canadian content, sports, live hockey, and basketball game shows.
Supremacy
Supremacy is a free IPTV add-on for Kodi that let you steam tons of live TV channels, live sports channels, a dedicated section for kids, TV shows, 4K movies, list of active 24/7 TV channels, and even 3D films. It is currently one of the best add-ons for Kodi for streaming live content in HD quality.
While scrolling through the available channels, you may come across dead links as most of them are scraped from the Internet, however surprisingly some live TV channels sources are in 720p and 1080p resolutions too. Overall, the quality of streams and content being provided by Supremacy add-on is excellent.
cCloud TV
cCloud TV is one of the oldest and the most reliable source for up-to-date live TV streams and live TV channels from all around the world. Even though the developer has stopped actively maintaining the sources for live TV channels but most of the links are working as the IPTV channels scraper is still working great.
The best thing is all the contents are well organized according to type and genre. And apart from the TV channels, there are streamable movies and TV shows too.
You may face a problem here or there while streaming content or when trying to select your favorite channels from the list because that’s how these free live TV channels scraper works. However, many Kodi users are still using this add-on to stream content on daily basis. You can try your luck!
USTVNow Plus
USTVNow Plus is an official provider of streaming live TV channels on Kodi with the ability to stream some of the most popular US TV channels outside the USA. It is an IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) service for American citizens living overseas.
There are two subscription packages, free and paid. The free package allows you to stream some selected live TV channels including ABC, CW, FOX, My9, CBS, NBC, and PBS as well as some limited DVR options. Whereas the paid package will let you stream all the available 28 US TV channels live on your Kodi including Animal Planet, CNBC, Discovery Channel, ESPN, National Geographic, Nickelodeon, and Comedy Central along with the full DVR capabilities.
It is important to note here that to be able to stream the live TV channels on your Kodi app then you must need to create an account on the USTVNow Plus website.Are you looking for the best sources to find coordinates for Pokemon sniping? You have come to the right place as here we have an ultimate list of best Pokemon GO Discord channels and servers to help you snipe and bot rare Pokemon with 100 IV and high CP. Our ultimate list will help you catch them all. 😀
Whether you are sniping on your phone using sniper tools or using a botting program to snipe Pokemon, this ultimate Discord channels list will help you with all of your sniping needs.
We have been getting a lot of requests lately asking about a list of best discord servers and discord Pokemon GO coordinates where you can find all the active channels of rare and 100 IV Pokemon spawn coordinates for sniping purposes. Apart from the cords (longitude and latitude), in every discord channel, you are going to find all the other relevant details about each Pokemon, including its name, remaining time, level, IV score, and CP score.
So for those of you who were waiting, your wait is finally over folks! Here we have an ultimate list of active and working Pokemon GO sniping discord channels that you can use to find and snipe all those rare hard-to-find and legendary Pokemon you were looking for and quickly complete your Pokedex.
In case you don’t know, we already have an up-to-date list of best location trackers and scanners websites that provide live feeds of Pokemon gen1 and gen2 coordinates. If you are interested, then click here to check it out. 😉
Best Pokemon GO Sniping, Raiding, Battles Discord Channels
Without any further ado, here is the active and working rare Pokemon GO sniping Discord channels and servers list:
NOTE: In case any of the discord invitation links is inactive or does not work for you, then please let us know in the comments down below, and we will try our best to get a new invite link.
1. Pokemon Go Coordinates
Pokemon Go Coordinates is currently the most popular discord server, with over thirteen thousand people. It is specifically targeted towards spoofers; however, genuine PoGo players also have the freedom to join the server.
The server consists of different teams (similar to Pokemon game itself), and upon joining, you will be asked to choose your team using the assign-roles channel.
Available Channels
The server features several channels, including dedicated channels for coordinates and community.
- Pokemon-Go – Here, all the members can have conversations and chat with each other about the game.
- Trading-Channel – Use this channel to trade with other players.
- Screenshots – Share screenshots of your collections and show other players what you have farmed.
- Raid-Requests – Here, you can share raid requests or join other members in the raid.
- 100iv-Pokemon – A dedicated channel to find coordinates for 100IV Pokémon from all around the world.
- Raid-Boosted – Indulge yourself in different boosted raids that are open for you to join.
2. Pokedex100
Pokedex100 is one of the famous and best Pokemon hunting websites where you can find Pokemon coordinates and spawn point details from over thirty countries.
Apart from running their successful public web services for Pokemon snipers, they have also started Discord server in an attempt to enhance their services and provide you with 24/7 free Pokemon coords delivered right on your smartphone or computer.
Available Channels
There are numerous channels in Pokedex100 Discord server, which includes:
- Tips and tricks about the Pokemon GO game.
- Candy – Check for desired candies using bot commands.
- Gym Raid – Used for battles in gym or raids.
- 100 Community – Coordinates of Pokemon with 100IV.
- 90 Community – Coordinates of Pokemon with 90IV and above.
- 2600CP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 2600CP and above.
- 2000CP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 2000CP and above.
- Evo 3 Community – Coordinates of Stage 3 Pokemon.
- Lvl30 100 Community – Coordinates of 100IV Pokemon between Level 26 and Level 30 only.
- Playground – A powerful bot that can be used to verify coordinates of any Pokemon using latitude and longitude.
3. Pokesnipers
Similar to the last one, Pokesnipers also has its very own website for quick Pokemon sniping on Android using sniping tools. However, their Discord server is much more active with over 80,000 members because it remains online even if their website is down for maintenance.
They have made it one of the biggest discord community where all the members are gathered to snipe rare, 100IV, and high CP Pokemon.
Available Channels
Pokesnipers channels list includes:
- Demand Candy – To demand the coordinates of Pokemon Candies.
- Raid Coords – For discussions related to the boss and raid coords as well as the new gym battle system.
- Rare 90 Coords – Coordinates of rare Pokemon with 90IV and above.
- 100IV Trainers 30 UP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 100IV specifically for trainers with Level 30 and above.
- Unown – A dedicated channel for all super rare gen 2 Pokemon coordinates, including Unown, Tyranitar, Magikarp, Horsea.
- 90 All – Coordinates for Pokemon with 90IV or maybe above.
- Events Shiny – Dedicated channel for coordinates of Shiny Pokemon and event-specific Pokemon.
- Rare Spawns – Spawn points and coordinates of rare Pokemon only.
4. PoGO Alerts Network (PGAN)
PoGO Alerts Network (PGAN) is like an online community of Pokemon trainers. They have a huge list of active Twitter feeds and maps for different parts of the United States of America, including Florida, Maryland, New York, Texas, Virginia, and Colorado.
They have a mass scanner in all parts of the US, which provides a continuous feed of Pokemon coordinates that you can use for sniping.
Available Channels
PoGO Alerts Network channels list includes:
- Pokedex Queries – Ask bot for information about any Pokemon.
- Rare Sightings – Coordinates for all the rare Pokemon sightings.
- 100IV Rares – Coordinates of rare Pokemon with 100IV.
- 100IV Commons – Coordinates of common Pokemon with 100IV.
- Raids – Find active raids in locations like New York, Florida, Texas, Virginia, Maryland, and Colorado.
5. NecroBot 2
For those of you who don’t know, NecroBot is an application that allows you to bot and snipe Pokemon using Niantic’s old code. However, you need to use API for login to be able to remain undetectable by the Niantic servers, keep your Pokemon GO account safe without bans, and avoid any possible flags on your account.
NecroBot2 has a Discord server for discussions, and they have a couple of channels where they share coordinates of rare Pokemon with 100IV.
Available Channels
NecroBot2 channels list includes:
- 100IV – Pokemon with 100IV coordinates.
- Best Of Rare Coords – Coordinates of some best and rare Pokemon.
6. HoustonPokeMap
HoustonPokeMap is a Houston, TX-based Pokemon scanner and coordinates finding service. Apart from the Discord server, they have an active real-time map website as well as Twitter handle where they push their findings for free.
Available Channels
HoustonPokeMap channels list includes:
- IV100 – Pokemon with IV100 coordinates.
- IV90 – Pokemon with IV90 or above coordinates.
- CP2500 – Pokemon with CP2500 and above coordinates.
- Other Pokemon – Tons of Pokemon specific channels.
- Raid – Find coordinates for Raids in Houston.
- Raids Chat – Chat with other nearby Pokemon trainers and plan your raids together.
7. NYCPokeMap
NYCPokeMap is a Pokemon tracker and scanner service based in New York City. They provide a real-time update about all the Pokemon spawning within the locality on their Discord server. Updates and news related to the game are also published via their official website and Twitter handle.
Available Channels
NYCPokeMap channels list includes:
- IV90 – Pokemon with IV90 or above coordinates in NYC.
- IV100 – Pokemon with IV100 coordinates in NYC.
- CP2500 – Pokemon with CP2500 and above coordinates located in NYC.
- Other Pokemon – Tons of Pokemon specific channels.
- Raid – Find coordinates for Raids in New York City.
- Raids Chat – Chat with other nearby Pokemon trainers in New York City and plan your raids together.
8. PokeXperience
PokeXperience is a popular Discord server where you can find coordinates for Pokemon GO that can be used for sniping purposes.
There are many free to use channels you can use to find and snipe your favorite Pokemon and complete your Pokedex. However, if you are looking for some ultra-rare and powerful Pokemon with the highest IV and max CP, then you may need to become a donator. But I believe the free should be enough for many snipers.
Available Channels
PokeXperience channels list includes:
- 100IV – Pokemon with 100IV coordinates.
- Lvl30 – Level 30 Pokemon coordinates.
- Candy Bot – Request coordinates for Pokemon candies.
- CP2500 Plus – Pokemon CP2500 and above coordinates.
- 80IV Plus Rare CP MS – Rare Pokemon with 80IV and above coordinates.
- Nests – Find nest coordinates for your requested Pokemon.
- Raids Coords – Recent and active raids coordinates.
- Raids US AU – Raids coordinates for the US
- Raids Asia-EU – Raids coordinates for Asia only.
9. TeamRocket
10. PokeNoobs
11. PokeSnipers
12. Letsnipe
13. PoGo CDC (Cool Down Club)
14. PoGoFighterZ
15. Shiny Party
16. Zygarde Go
17. PokedexIV100
18. ARSpoofing (PoGo)
19. The G Spot
20. Pokemon Global Family
21. 100IV Club
100IV Club is in a partnership with Pokesnipers, and both Discord servers are somewhat interlinked because the administrators of them are the same.
Anyways, 100IV Club is a popular Discord server among Pokemon GO trainers and has many channels where you can find rare and high-level Pokemon coordinates for sniping.
There is even a lounge channel where you are free to interact with other fellow 100IV Club members.
Available Channels
100IV Club channels list includes:
- 100IV Club – Coordinates of Pokemon with 100IV.
- Candy – Check for candies using bot commands.
- Gen1 100IV – Coordinates of 1st Generation Pokemon with 100IV.
- Gen2 100IV – Coordinates of 2nd Generation Pokemon with 100IV.
- Regionals – Coordinates of all the regional specific Pokemon.
- 2500CP Plus – Coordinates of Pokemon with 2500CP and above.
- Raidz Coords – Find coordinates for active raids.
- ShinyKarp100 – Dedicated channel for shiny Magikarp with 100IV.
Recommended for you: Do you love this excellent list of Pokemon sniping channels? If yes, then we believe you will be interested in Pokemon gym raids too. So for that, we have an ultimate list of Pokemon GO gym raids maps and gym discord channels. We know you will love to check it out. 😉
22. Articuno’s Lair
Articuno’s Lair consists of an extensive list of popular sniping discord channels, which you can use to find your favorite Pokemon, including the rare and legendary ones.
They have a dedicated channel for all those famous, rare, and legendary Pokemon to make it easy for you to find and snipe them.
Available Channels
Articuno’s Lair channels list includes:
- 100IV All – Coordinates of all Pokemon with 100IV.
- CP2000 Plus – Find Pokemon with CP2000 and above.
- 75IV Gen1 – Coordinates of First Generation Pokemon with 75IV and above.
- 75IV Gen2 – Coordinates of Second Generation Pokemon with 75IV and above.
- Candy – Request information for candies.
- Raids – Talk with fellow Pokemon trainers and join them for raids.
- Dedicated Channels – Several dedicated channels for special Pokemon like Regional specific, Unown, Snorlax, Dragonite, Lapras, Togetic, Ditto, Magikarp, Eevee, Dratini, Snorlax, and much
23. PokeBot.Ninja
PokeBot.Ninja is a Java-based cross-platform botting application for Pokemon GO. They have created a Discord server to provide support to its users, but apart from that, they also offer Discord channels where you can find coordinates for sniping, raids, and nests for Pokemon.
Available Channels
PokeBot.Ninja channels list includes:
- Coords Sniping – Coordinates for all Pokemon for sniping.
- Coords Raids – Find all coordinates for raids.
- Coords Nests – Coordinates for Pokemon nests.
24. Catch ‘Em All
Catch ‘Em All is an active Discord server that consists of bots as well as amazing people who continue to share coordinates of Pokemons around the clock so that people like you can continue to find and snipe all those rare Pokemon and complete your Pokedex as quick as possible.
Available Channels
Catch ‘Em All channels list includes:
- 100IV MS CP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 100IV shared by bots.
- 100 Only User – Coordinates of Pokemon with 100IV shared by the members only.
- Max CP Not 100 – Coordinates of Pokemon with maximum CP regardless of IV points.
- 90 Plus User – Coordinates of Pokemon with 90IV or above shared by members.
- All IV Report – Coordinates of Pokemon with all IVs.
- Candy Bot VIP – Request for candy coordinates for any Pokemon.
- Above 2500CP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 2500CP.
- Above 2000CP – Coordinates of Pokemon with 2000CP.
- Regionals – Coordinates of regionals Pokemon only.
- Raids Channel – Find and discuss raids with the fellow members.
- Location Specific – Location-specific channels for Pokemon coordinates and spawns in areas like Singapore, London, Vegas, Sydney, Chicago, and Toronto.
25. Pokopia
Pokopia is a China-based Pokemon GO community, but it is in the English language so that all the Pokemon trainers from all around the world can use this Discord server to find rare Pokemon and snipe them.
It is a community-based server where the members share most of the Pokemon spawn points and coordinates.
Available Channels
Pokopia channels list includes:
- LVL30 IV100 – Pokemon with Level 30 and IV 100 coordinates.
- IV100 – Pokemon with IV100 coordinates.
- IV90-99 – Pokemon with IV90 or above coordinates.
- IV1-89 – Coordinates of Pokemon with IV1 to IV89.
- IV0 – Coordinates of Pokemon with IV0.
- CP2600 Plus – Coordinates of Pokemon with CP2600 and above.
26. Discord PokeSniper
27. PokeCrash
28. ScornBot
29. PoGoMasters
30. PokeHacks.org
Conclusion
That’s all my fellow Pokemon trainers. If there are any other working sniping Discord channels or servers not on the list, or maybe you are a member of any server and want it to be included in the list, then please feel free to let us know in the comments section below. We will be happy to add them. 😀
Have fun sniping all those powerful and rare Pokemon!
100Iv club invite does not work 👎🏼
Duhdu
100IV club invite is invalid(!)
Another Pokémon go server join here “`@everyone
r/pokemonshowdown
A very cool Pokémon server to have fun
features
👍 950+ members
🎟 cool members
🎟 advertising permission
🎟 friendly staff
🎟 Active chat
🎟 own bot Arceus,pokefgo++,Pikachu
🎟 suggestion and opinion are accepted
🎟 self roles
🎟 lot’s of giveaway and tournament
fun
☣ join here now @everyone https://discord.gg/NwZwxtf“`
@pokemurph Platinum has great following with articuno bot service from articuno Lair
Over 100 Coord/Raid rooms lots of helpful rooms for everyone updated daily by the Team
All are welcome, all is open except just a few premium rooms!
https://discord.gg/Rk2DYyG Link Expires DM me on Twitter https://twitter.com/pokemurph
Members:1399
Humans:1384
Bots:15
Sat Oct 14th, 2017 at 2:56 AM
https://discord.gg/Juadd8k
Poke Go Club
One of the Greatest Pokemon Go server
Newly Made server just for Pogo players
They have a huge number on giveaways each day. They also provide donor facilities with high exclusive giveaway. They have 100 iv pokemon codes also have candy nest
They help each other to raid also have gym hunter for Famous spots .
They have huge giveaways too. So what are you waiting for join ASAP.
https://discord.gg/Juadd8k
@everyone @here
Friends please we can provide you with the best facilities.
No one can beat the facilities that you can get here:thumbsup: @here
new invitation for 3 and 4 please?
Invitation for #4 has been updated and also included below. And I guess #3 has been temporarily closed due to some issues with its administrator.
PoGO Alerts Network Discord Invitation – https://discordapp.com/invite/WhsbxSV
new invite for 100IV CLUB?
Unfortunately, 100IV Club is no more. It has been closed. However, as mentioned in the article above, 100IVClub and Pokesnipers discords are being maintained by same administrators. So you can join Pokesnipers instead. It’s #2 on the list above.
Here’s the invitation link: https://discord.gg/T2MakRF
Need válid invitacion for pokesnipers channel, can you help me please..
Sorry, invitation code for pokesnypers is not valid, can you help me please..thak you..
Hi @disqus_Us5r2DRBO0:disqus, here’s the invitation code for Pokesnipers: https://discord.gg/T2MakRF
There’s a new free SPOOF SERVER with a map with free IVs! https://discord.gg/ZjEUHSx
#3 invite expired
#5 invite expired
3, 5, 17, & 21 are not working. FYI
Many link is expiredDo you struggle to find a reliable and trustworthy web browser for your Android device that provides all the features to fulfill your web browsing requirements?
Here I have personally tried and tested each web browsing app and prepared a list of 10 best web browser apps for Android that according to me are the most steadfast.
All of these provides the most needed features including ad blocking, download manager, private mode, synchronization, data saving mode, browsing speed booster just to name a few.
#01 – UC Browser – Fast Download
Do you want to download files from a website but struggling with unstable downloading speeds?
UC Browser has a built-in download manager and makes use of their servers that will keep all of your downloads at its maximum speeds without any stability issues. And in case your download is dropped due to connectivity then it will resume from the same point.
UC Browser features an integrated ad blocking system and manages to block most of the advertisements to provide you the ad-free web browsing experience.
And in case, your smartphone or tablet has limited resources then you can download UC Browser Mini, which will give you a smooth web browsing experience.
#02 – Google Chrome Browser
Google Chrome is one of the most popular web browsers for all the platforms and devices. Developed by Google, which is why the browser is capable enough to let you quickly initiate your search using your voice.
Once you sign-in to your Google account, you will notice that all of your bookmarks, tabs, browsing history and even all of your saved passwords are sync with your Android device, which allows you to move your work from one device to another seamlessly.
#03 – Mozilla Firefox Browser
Similar to Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox is one of the most reliable web browser available for Android. Its ability to personalize the web browsing experience according to your taste is what makes it the favorite browser for millions of users.
Firefox will let you customize your browser using the add-ons, which is available for everything like password managers, download manager, ad blocker. And with the sync capability, you will be able to access your bookmarks, opened tabs, and history on different devices without a glitch.
#04 – Dolphin Web Browser
Dolphin web browser gives you a unique feature, which is not provided by any other browser in the list i.e. gestures. Yes, you can add your personalized gesture to access your favorite website like drawing a letter “F” to navigate to Facebook quickly.
Dolphin web browser also supports Flash player so can get the best video and gaming experience right on your Android smartphone or tablet.
#05 – Opera Browser
If you are looking for a web browser that will improve your web browsing experience even on a slow Internet connection, then I will recommend you to go for Opera browser.
The web browser is powered by Opera Turbo that is designed to boost the web page loading speeds by over 70 percent and even save your data.
Moreover, the video compression feature uses Opera’s compression servers that will enhance your video experience and will prevent it from delaying.
#06 – CM Security Browser
CM Security Browser is developed by Cheetah Mobile, which is popular for developing security apps for Android devices. The CM web browser is the most secure as it provides real-time fraud and malicious protection while you are surfing the Internet.
The browser ensure a speedy web browsing experience by using its custom-made speed acceleration algorithm that preloads the page so that you won’t have to spend any time waiting for the page to load.
#07 – Puffin Web Browser
Are you looking for a web browser that will give you a faster page-loading time? Try Puffin Web Browser. The developers have designed a technique that uses their super-fast cloud servers in an attempt to load resource hungry web pages without any delay.
Also, if you are using public Wi-Fi network to access the Internet and worried about your privacy, then Puffin’s cloud protection will keep you secure as all the traffic that reaches Puffin cloud servers are encrypted to ensure that your identity remains protected from intruders.
#08 – Maxthon Web Browser
Maxthon web browser is a secure, simple and lightweight browser that is downloaded by over five hundred million trusted users.
It has a built-in ad blocker system powered by Adblock Plus, that is powerful enough to block most types of the advertisements on your Android device.
The browser features a private mode, download manager, and quick access toolbar that can be customized to keep all of your favorite websites at your fingertips.
#09 – Next Browser
Next Browser is developed by GO Dev Team, which is one of the top developers of the Android App Store. The web browser provides you with a fast web browsing experience that ensures the loading of all of the web pages in under two seconds.
Other notable features of the web browser include powerful add-ons, incognito browsing mode, no-image mode, and night mode so that you can browse comfortably at night.
#10 – APUS Browser
APUS Browser is designed by keeping in mind the requirements and needs of those users who are using slow Internet connections like 2G. The APUS browser accelerator will ensure that all of your web pages are loaded a lot faster even on slow Internet connectivity.
Similar to other web browsers, APUS is lightweight and doesn’t require much system resource. And with support for multi-tab browsing, you can quickly switch between several tabs without any issue.
Which One Is Your Personal Favorite?
My personal favorite is Mozilla Firefox web browser as it provides me with a seamless synchronization of all my bookmarks between desktop and smartphone, and I can even personalize my experience using the support for add-ons.
Is there any other web browser app that is your favorite? I would love to hear about that in the comments below! 🙂
After reading your Suggestions. I now know why I’ve never ran across this website. IF article was updated in 2020,then Why would you”Suggest”browsers caught and proven to be collecting sensitive user data, stealing bandwidth, spying for China and a browser that play store removed EARLY 2019? And I’m sure this comment won’t be authorized for posting. Which I’m pretty sure happened to at least 6 others comments Moderator disapprovedClash of Clans apk is one of the most highly popular and widely played online games ever designed for mobile devices. Do you like multiplayer games and want to play CoC on your phone? Here you will find the downloadable Clash of Clans file for your Android phone/tablet.
Clash of Clans is one of those kinds of games where you need to build your own village, add defensive units to protect resources, and then go all frenzy with your troops to destroy your opponents’ kingdom, strategically demolish their resources, and collect loot.
CoC is a massively multiplayer online game and strategy-based game where the bases are built and destroyed online so you need to tactically place your buildings, resources, and defensive units to stop the opponents’ troops from looting your resources and minimize the overall damage to your village/base.
But, it’s not that simple because there are lots of aspects that you need to take care of while building your base and attacking your opponents, read more to find out…
About Clash of Clans APK
Clash of Clans is a multiplayer strategy based game that is being designed and developed by a Finland based mobile game development company named Supercell. The game is based on the freemium model, which means it is completely free to play but you will find some paid in-game items like gems and coins that can be purchased for real money.
However, purchasing those gems and coins are not a requirement as you can earn them by spending time playing the game. Though, if you are looking for a shortcut and interested in quickly progressing forward in the game then spending some real money (only if you can afford it, of course) would be the best way to go.
Apart from the paid features, the game is pretty interesting and consists of a wide array of resources, characters, buildings, defense units, upgrades for troops and buildings, spells and what not.
Features of Clash of Clans for Android
Because of the staggering features being offered by the Clash of Clans and the amount of strategizing and planning the whole gameplay actually requires, it has become one of the highly addictive mobile games of the history. Here are some of the features that make it stand out from the crowd:
Builder Base – Inclusion of a completely new world to the game, where you will discover new buildings, troops, upgrades along with a renewed versus battle mode.
Defend Your Village – Village is where all your resources, town hall, buildings are located. You need to build archers, canons, mortars, and traps to defend against opponents’ attack.
Join Clan – You can start your own clan or join an existing one, which is actually a group of around 50 players who can then take part in Clan Wars to attack opponent clan’s bases.
Clan Wars – Clan Wars is a team-attacking mode where all clan members attack opponent clan member’s base to win the war. Wining clan will gain the maximum amount of XP, which helps the members in troop donations.
Join League – Successfully attacking your opponent’s village will reward you with trophies, which then helps you climb the league. Your current league level decides the amount of loot bonus you will receive.
Demo Gameplay Video of Clash of Clans
Do you want to see how Clash of Clans apk gameplay looks like on Android before downloading and installing it on your phone? Check the short video below:Roblox apk for Android gives you the ultimate access to the world of online multiplayer gaming zone and custom game designing systems. If you are a gamer and looking forward to accessing a library full of fun games and adventure, then this gaming app is a perfect solution for you.
This online game app is not just about exploring a game world; rather, it gives a platform to the game developers to showcase their talent and earn money. That is precisely what gives this a two-fold advantage. One for the gamers and one for the developers.
It won’t be an overstatement if we say Roblox is a gaming universe that welcomes all the game lovers to discover the true meaning of online gaming.
On the one hand, this app is an online gaming world that allows multiple players to play simultaneously. Whereas, on the other hand, it provides one of the best game development platforms for the developers to design their customized games.
Roblox is considered one of the most trusted and widely used gaming arena, with approximately 100 million monthly active users. Yes, you have read that right. This app as a gateway to gaming heaven where one can just dive in to explore unlimited opportunities of online games from different genres.
About Roblox APK
Roblox is an inventive game universe that has a vast gaming library for all the players. It is a virtual world of games where one can explore thousands of possibilities of playing and developing games. It all depends upon the imagination and creativity of the developers to make their game design come true in real life.
Roblox apk is one of its own kind of game universe that provides various options including:
- A game studio with thousands of games of multiple categories like racing, fighting, adventure,
- A game-creation platform with all the necessary tools to help the developers design a game,
- The game library that contains games for all the age groups.
The sign-up process requires the user to input some credentials. The information needed from the user is the birthday, username, and password. The users are highly recommended not to use their original names. Once the user inputs the requested data, the app will register the information and will lead the user to the home screen.
The home screen is a huge game library that contains thousands of recommended games, new ones, and top trending.
One can also use the search bar to find any specific game. Alongside the search icon, there is a Robux balance icon, which tells the user about the current Robux balance. The person who just signs up will have zero Robux in their account. This in-game currency is needed to customize the avatar. Also, this in-game cash will help the user to buy items in the games.
For convenience, the Roblox currency is converted into the US dollar to make the conversion easier. The user can buy as low as 40 and as high as 10,000 Robux in one transaction.
The user can send requests to other users by clicking the “Add friends” option available on top of the home screen. One can receive a friend request or search for friends nearby.
There are two tiny buttons available on the left and right bottom corners. The left button leads to game notifications with related options, including calls, game features, screenshot, and video recording. The right button is to lock the phone screen.
Once the user clicks on a game, a detailed description is shown along with the other stats related to that particular game, which includes:
- The total number of players of the game,
- How many times the game has been visited,
- The players can also rate the game only after playing,
- Developer’s information,
- The maximum number of players is mentioned,
- The passes and gears used in the game can be purchased by using Robux currency,
- There are different badges available for the players depending upon completing certain levels and challenges,
If the user clicks on the Developer’s information, it will lead to the Developer group page. The user can check other games developed by the respective Developer along with access to its online store. The user can also join the Developer’s group if available to keep themselves updated and receive rewards.
The user can also check the popularity of any developer by the total number of its supporters and fans categories. All this information is available in Roblox apk for the developers. The Developer can be a team or an individual, and the user can join the group of the developer team or follow their favorite developers to keep updated with the latest news.
Roblox acts as a social platform, too, that allows the game fans to interact and to explore the gaming world. The user can be a fan of the games who wanted to know about the game developers or can be a person who just wants to play different games.
There are various groups in the game that users join for gaming knowledge, latest trends, and updates. There are different gadgets to facilitate users to progress in the games. The games can be played by multiple users simultaneously, and they can communicate with each other via online chat.
The user can go back from the arrow available on the left top and go to the Settings section located on the top right corner. That will lead to multiple settings that can be adjusted by the user to further customize Roblox apk:
- Notifications – The user can check the options where the other users can send a friend request, private message, or can chat. The analytical reports related to the user’s performance is also available.
- Accounts Info – One can add a phone number, email, personal info, and other social media account details to the account.
- Privacy – The contact settings regarding who can contact, send a friend request or message can be adjusted by the user.
- Billing – The billing option is enabled only for the Builders Club members. There are different categories available, including Builders club, Turbo builders club, and outrageous builders club. One can get Robux daily and buy gears and trade stuff with the club membership. The subscription is available for one and three months.
Roblox APK Designing Facilities
Mentioned below are the facilities necessary for game designing and already available in the Roblox app for Android:
- Roblox Studio – It is the proprietary engine that assists the users to develop the games
- Lua – It is the programming language used in the app to write codes for the games. Lua is based on Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).
- Robux – A virtual currency being used within the game that allows users to buy various in-game items. Developers can create game passes and products that can be purchased and exchanged. All these transactions are possible with Robux.
- Builder Club Membership – Although Roblox is a free online multiplayer platform, however, there are in-app purchases for developers and gamers as there are virtual products that can be sold and bought. Players need to have Builder club membership to sell the items, and all these trades are based on Robux currency.
- Roblox Events – The game holds invitation-only conferences as well as virtual events. Roblox has held a Developer’s Conference in which only selected developers were invited. Easter Egg Hunt is a virtual event held every year.
- Gadgets, Gears, Passes, and Badges – The games available in the app have different levels, and badges are given to the winners of a particular level. The levels vary from beginner to expert. Developers sell gadgets and gears, and the players can buy these items during the game.
Features of Roblox for Android
Here are some of the key notable features of Roblox apk online multiplayer game for Android:
- A unique interactive online multiplayer social game world where one can play various games with other users and friends.
- Platform suitable for developers and help them design games by letting them buy a membership for the Builders Club using Robux currency. The membership unlocks exclusive developers-only features like selling gears and gadgets.
- Thousands of multiplayer games with different genres and each is categorized and can be searched via the search bar.
- The user can choose an avatar for their profile.
- In-game chat functionality is available, too, so the user can chat with other people and friends during the game or afterward.
- The user can also find friends in the gaming community.
- Specific badges get unlocked when the user reaches certain levels in the game.
- All the details of the game, users, and ratings are available to facilitate users in finding the most suitable game for themselves.
- The user can follow different developers or join their group to stay updated.Spotify account,
Internet connectivity to stream music.
You can download APK file from the link below.
Previous Versions
Spotify Premium apk mod latest version for Android available for download to help you enjoy endless music without interruption. In this blog post, you will learn the following:
A download link to quickly get Spotify Premium cracked and modded version for Android no root, which is available for free to download.
A brief guide on how to download and install it on your Android phone and tablet devices and enjoy unlimited music for free.
Spotify Premium gives you unlimited skips, blocks advertisements, play any music from any playlist, no shuffle, offline listening experience, premium sound quality, and a lot more.
For Spotify offline listening and downloading music, please check the section “How to download music from Spotify.”
At the end of this article, we have shared frequently asked questions (FAQs), where we have answered all of your questions and queries.
We know the Spotify free version gets annoying to use because of limitations like limited song skips, no permission to listen to music in high (extreme) quality, and shows a lot of visual/audio ads in between the songs. All of which completely ruins the music listening experience.
But you don’t have to worry anymore as the mod and cracked Spotify Premium version will help you get almost all the premium features without paying the premium subscription fee.
Spotify mod will unlock all the premium features, including unlimited skips, ability to play any song from the playlist, unlimited shuffle, block all ads, option to enable high-quality music playback with seek bar enabled.
With that being said, if you were searching for the 100% working modded Spotify app that offers premium features, then your search is finally over as here you are going to learn about how to download, install, and get Spotify premium apk for free on Android.
What Is Spotify and How Spotify Premium APK Works?
We all are very well aware that Spotify Premium is a modded and cracked version of the free Spotify online music streaming service where you can find music, song, podcast, audiobooks, novels, poetry, comedy, soundtrack, and whatnot. Every soundtrack that is suitable for any moment of your life is available.
You can quickly search for songs, discover new music, and play your favorite titles.
Share your favorite soundtracks with your friends for free without any restrictions.
It gives you instant access to the world of music.
Find any music from any genre –from old classic songs and vintage radio to the latest hits.
Create your personalized playlists for podcasts or music.
Discover music based on your mood or your recent song listening activity.
All you need to do is hit the play button and start streaming any music you like from any genre on your Android phone and tablet devices.
Download Spotify Premium Mod APK for Android
You can download the latest Spotify Premium app for your Android smartphone and tablet devices from download links already given at the beginning of this page.
The Spotify Premium apk shared with you is thoroughly checked, free from viruses, verified, secure, and safe to install and use on any Android device. We always make sure to update this page with the latest version so if you are one of those who always want to have the newest version, then we will recommend you to bookmark this page.
Psst… You can get Spotify Premium for free not only on Android but all of your phone and computer devices including iPhone on iOS, Mac OS, and Windows PC using our ultimate guide. 😉
And don’t forget that we at BestForAndroid do not support piracy in any way, and the provided app is only for demo and educational purposes.
Spotify Mod Info
Based on the unlocked mod (Credits MrDude) with the following features:
Unlocked Spotify Connect,
Visual ads blocked,
Audio ads blocked,
Seeking enabled,
Unlimited shuffle,
Choose any song,
Extreme audio unlocked,
Repeats enabled,
Canvas enabled,
Storyline enabled,
Disabled/Removed unwanted Permissions + Receivers and Services,
Analytics/Crashlytics disabled.
How to Install Spotify Premium APK on Android
Here is a complete step-by-step guide to assist you with the downloading and installation process of Spotify Premium app on Android:
DISCLAIMER: We at BestForAndroid will not be held responsible if Spotify terminates or suspends your account due to the usage of the Spotify Premium mod app. All information provided here is strictly for educational purposes, and we are not responsible for how you decide to use the information provided.
Download the latest version of Spotify Premium apk from the download link given in the beginning.
For safety purposes, the file you downloaded will be in a zip format. You need to use the built-in file manager or any file explorer of your choice to extract/unzip the file.
Once unzipped/extracted, now tap on the extracted apk file to begin the installation. The file will be named as com.spotify.music.apk.
Depending on the version of Android OS running on your phone, you may see a warning message that says, “For your security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source.” Tap on the Settings button.
A new menu will open with an option that says, Allow from this source. Tap on the toggle switch right next to it to enable the installation.
Now go back to the installation screen. You will see a list of all the permissions required by the app (if there is any). Tap on the Install button.
Tap on the Open button to launch the Spotify Premium app.
Now to sign in to your Spotify account, you will need to log in using your Spotify credentials, i.e., your email address and password. If you don’t already have an account, then we will recommend you to create one. Otherwise, you can also use the Facebook Connect option.
Once you are logged in to Spotify, you should then be able to enjoy the premium features. Which includes playing any music from the playlist, unlimited skips, extreme sound quality streaming along with other premium features we have already mentioned in the Spotify Premium features section below.
If, in any case, you are unable to log in to Spotify then we will recommend you to check the FAQs section at the end of this article where we have a troubleshooting guide to help you fix all the known issues.
How to Download Music from Spotify?
Having the Spotify Premium mod will never let you download music from Spotify for offline listening because those features require a direct connection to the Spotify servers, which you can only get with the Spotify Premium account.
However, we have a 100% working alternative for our readers considering how much each one of you wants to have offline listening and music downloading feature.
So, without any further ado, here is how you can download music from Spotify:
Have you ever heard about Deezer? It is another fantastic music streaming service that offers over 56 million music, podcasts, soundtracks, audio channels, radio stations, and whatnot. You can find more music than Spotify.
And can you guess what the best thing is?
The Deezer will let you download music for offline listening without any limitations, and the mod version will unlock everything for you, unlike Spotify.
To start downloading your whole music playlist for offline listening, all you need to do is to download this free Deezer Premium mod and install it on your device.
It’s that simple. 😉
Features Of Spotify Premium Version
As already mentioned at the beginning, Spotify Premium requires a paid subscription because it offers you some of the best features to make your music listening experience better than ever.
However, with the provided Spotify Premium app, you can enjoy all the paid features without paying a penny; and we will guide you about that in a while.
Here are some of the unique Spotify Premium features you can enjoy:
Download Music And Offline Listening – You are allowed to download your whole playlist (limited to 3,333 tracks) and listen to them even when you are somewhere without active Internet connectivity. Offline listening helps you save a significant amount of Internet data and bandwidth.
Extreme Sound Quality – Each soundtrack is available in three different qualities, i.e., Normal, High, and Extreme. The extreme quality is known as Premium, in which the music is played at 320Kbps, making your music experience more enjoyable and immersive.
Zero Commercial – You can listen to your favorite music and soundtracks without witnessing a single piece of commercial and advertisement, including the removal of audio and visual ads. So, there will be zero interruption in your music listening experience.
Play Any Soundtrack – Yes, the Freemium version does not allow you to skip the track. But with the Spotify Premium apk, you will gain more control over the player as it enables you to play any music you want whenever you want without any limitation. Just find and play.
Unlimited Music Skips – Now, you don’t have to wait for the music to end because you will have the ultimate ability to skip the current music at any time you want and start listening to the next soundtrack on your playlist.
Seeking Enabled – You can easily select, choose, and play any specific part of the music, podcast, or soundtrack as the seek bar is enabled and let you rewind and forward as well.
Unlimited Shuffle – Yes, the Freemium version limits you with shuffling, and you cannot play any soundtrack you want from the playlist. But with the Premium, you will get unlimited shuffle.
Save Storage Space – By online streaming all of your favorite music and soundtracks right from Spotify’s servers, you will be able to save a significant amount of storage space on your device. However, streaming music will consume a bit of your Internet data, so be wise while you are traveling or away from WiFi connectivity to save bandwidth.
Do you know, with this Spotify Premium mod, you can avoid the Spotify country restriction while you are traveling abroad? The procedure is straightforward, and here is a step-by-step guide on how to bypass country restrictions within a matter of minutes and continue enjoying all the premium features regardless of your geolocation 😉
Difference Between Spotify Premium & Spotify Free Version
Spotify Premium has become one of the biggest music streaming service providers. It is well known for providing an excellent online music service that allows you to listen to any music you want. You will find a massive music collection on their online servers.
Officially, there are two options to enjoy music streaming services of Spotify, i.e., Freemium and Premium.
The Spotify Freemium version gives you access to all music and offers:
Unlimited listening time,
Provides a basic set of features,
Shows advertisements,
Does not allow you to download music for offline listening,
The quality of the soundtrack is set to 128kbps.
However, with the Spotify Premium, you will get an interruption-free music listening experience as well as the following:
Zero advertisements,
Blocked audio ads and video ads,
Ability to download music for offline listening,
Play music and songs in extreme high quality, i.e., 320kbps,
Option to seek, rewind, and forward soundtracks,
You can shuffle songs for an unlimited number of times,
Get unlimited skips,
Music repeat option is unlocked,
You get to play any song you want from any playlist,
Log in to your Spotify account using Facebook Connect,
It is essential to mention here that some server-side features cannot be modded and requires you to have a paid Spotify Premium subscription.
How to Get Spotify Premium for Cheap?
If you are a Spotify Premium subscriber then apart from taking advantage of those remarkable features mentioned above, there are a couple of other discounted offers that you may be able to avail if you have plans to stay a Spotify Premium user:
Spotify Premium for Students – Costs about $4.99 per month.
Spotify Premium for Family – Costs about $14.99 per month.
Depending on your conditions, both of these are perfect choices if you want to save some money on the usual premium subscription billing charges.
Even though the pricing of Spotify Premium subscription is affordable and users opt for their premium offer. Still, many cannot pay for Premium even if they want to, because Spotify is not officially available in their country.
And that alone is the key reason why users from those countries are left with no other option but to download Spotify Premium mod for Android and continue enjoying premium features free.
Spotify Premium Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
We at BestForAndroid value our readers the most, we have created this section to quickly guide you and answer all of your frequently asked questions related to Spotify Premium apk.
We have designed this section to help save your time so you won’t have to spend your precious time searching or commenting in the comments section for possible solutions to your problems.
Spotify logged me out automatically and did not let me log in. What is the issue?
All you need to do is clear the cache and data of the Spotify app and then use any VPN app to bypass the login problem.
In case you didn’t understand what we just said above, then follow this simple step-by-step tutorial below:
On your Android, go to Settings and tap on Apps.
In the list of apps, look for Spotify and tap it.
Under the Spotify app info page, tap on Storage.
Tap on the clear data and clear cache to reset the Spotify app (important step).
A popup message will appear. Simply tap Delete.
Download the Browsec VPN app from the Google Play Store and enable VPN (use ‘United States’ as a VPN location).
Launch Spotify and log in using your credentials, and once you are successfully logged in, you can disable the VPN.
Why am I unable to login to Spotify Premium mod app using Facebook Connect?
Spotify mod sometimes interferes with the Facebook app already installed on your Android and shows login error: “there is an error in logging you into this app. Please try again later.”
Here is a quick and simple workaround:
Uninstall or disable the Facebook app on your Android device.
Open the Spotify app and click on Continue with the Facebook button.
A Facebook login page will appear, enter your account credentials and tap on sign in. You should be logged in to your Spotify account.
You can now open the Play Store, download and install the Facebook app again and log in to your Facebook account.
Spotify is not officially available in my country. How can I bypass country restrictions?
Did you see a message that says, “Spotify is not available in your country?” Simply follow our 100% tested and working workaround to bypass Spotify country restriction.First, download and install Spotify Premium mod on your Android using the tutorial given above. Then, head over to our step-by-step guide here, which will help you remove country restrictions and use Spotify Premium app for free on Android.
What is Spotify Premium mod apk, and how does it work?
Spotify Premium is a modified and hacked version of the original Spotify app. It is designed to unlock all the Spotify Premium features without paying for a subscription for an unlimited period on Android devices.
Is it safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk?
Yes, it is completely safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk on Android devices.We always perform thorough tests on Android apps to check for viruses and malicious codes, and we found the Spotify Premium app to be completely safe from viruses and security issues.
Why am I unable to skip songs on Spotify and don’t have unlimited skips?
It usually happens when you already have an official Spotify app installed on your Android device, and then you try to install the Spotify mod app on top of it.The only way to fix this is to first completely uninstall the original Spotify app from your device, then download the Spotify Premium app from the link given at the beginning of this article and do a fresh installation. We already have a detailed installation tutorial above.
Why is Spotify asking to upgrade to Premium when I tried to download music?
Spotify offers two account types, i.e., Free and Premium. Features like offline listening, music, and album downloading are server-sided and directly linked to your Spotify account type.If you have a free Spotify account but using the Spotify mod app as a bypass to enjoy premium features, then you won’t be able to download any music. You need to have a Spotify Premium account too to be able to unlock offline listening and downloading.
How much does it cost to get Spotify Premium for a year?
If you want to purchase Spotify Premium, it will cost you $9.99 per month. The student memberships cost $4.99. Some special offers and discount deals also give you the first three months subscription for under $3.99.
If your question is not answered in this FAQ section or maybe, you have a completely different issue related to Spotify Premium apk mod. In that case, please feel free to leave your query in the comments section below, and someone from our team will get back to you with a working solution.
I’m getting a msg saying install wont complete. Any help?
Which version did you download?
Awesomeness
I am so happy, thank you so much!Android Games
Pokemon Go Discuss everything about Pokemon GO including tips, tricks, GPS spoofing, sniping, hacks, guides, problems, and strategies with Pokemon trainers.Do you have any problem or want any trick, just post here and our Pokemon Go experts will answer you in minutes.
|Topic||Replies||Views||Activity|
|About the Android Games category||0||695||March 4, 2017|
|What are some of best Horror Games for Android?||5||643||October 26, 2020|
|What are some of the best puzzle games?||3||280||July 23, 2020|
|Https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.threedbrains.multi.speed.light.superhero||0||106||July 15, 2020|
|How to patch all android mobile games||0||113||July 13, 2020|
|Help. Failed to detect location pokemon Go flygps||88||159840||September 21, 2019|
|What are some of best Games to play on Samsung S8 and Note 8?||11||2284||October 16, 2019|
|How Animal Super Squad has so few players?||2||413||February 24, 2019|
|I just installed the tutuapp but any of the games are not woring||1||531||July 1, 2018|
|GTA San Andreas for Android cheats and hacks||6||12062||June 27, 2018|
|How to solve Pokemon Go GPS Signal not found issue?||15||8544||May 30, 2018|
|Need for speed for android cheats?||11||4076||April 4, 2018|
|Fly GPS/Fake GPS rubber band issue fix||13||49044||March 15, 2018|
|Is rooting still working on Pokemon go||5||1005||March 12, 2018|
|Fly GPS running in circles||12||4356||March 9, 2018|
|How To Get The JackPot In Subway Surfers||6||1670||February 17, 2018|
|How To Hatch Eggs In Pokémon Go?||7||876||February 5, 2018|
|Pokemon Go is Freezing||7||1305||January 28, 2018|
|What are the Alternatives of Pokesnip?||5||1989||January 9, 2018|
|Guide on Using Pokedex100||7||1961||January 8, 2018|
|Pokemon Go Hacked Version for Android||7||2130||January 6, 2018|
|Best Hacks & Tricks for Clash Of Clans Android||6||1223||December 28, 2017|
|Pokemon go hacks||2||1574||November 10, 2017|
|Use Nox App Player to play Pokemon Go on PC without Bluestacks||2||14149||October 23, 2017|
|[Tutorial] Pokemon Go++ Location Hack App||22||10604||September 13, 2017|
|How to use Pokehuntr to catch high IV Pokemons?||5||1968||September 8, 2017|
|What are best Pokemon GO maps, tracker and scanner sites?||4||3590||July 31, 2017|
|Any working best Pokemon GO IV Calculators?||4||11591||July 29, 2017|
|What are some best Pokevision Alternatives?||5||2285||July 14, 2017|
|No joystick after installing Pokemon GO using tutuapp||8||9905||July 1, 2017|Writing a thesis involves a great deal of time, concentration, and research. Thirty years ago, working on a thesis meant spending a lot of time in a computer lab or a library. Today, the same process is a little easier, thanks to essay writing apps helping to take the edge off some tasks and save us time.
With the wide adoptability of Android smartphones and tablet devices, users are looking for apps that make their thesis easier to write, improve their time management, and help them to focus.
Here are ten of the best essay writing apps for Android:
Microsoft Word
You can’t write a thesis without a word processor. Originally a program for PCs only, Word has had many iterations and become available on just about everything someone can imagine running it, including Android.
Yes, there are other word-processors out there, but Word has become the most compatible and the most used. As a result, it’s simply easier to use it for writing than to go with another processor that may not be compatible with what your campus or your professor is using.
Any.do
This app, available on Android as well, is targeted at those students who want to get their thesis done, but keep finding themselves having things come up that steal valuable time from writing it. Any.do is there to help organize all of those tasks into one straightforward app. It can handle tasks and reminders.
Any.do also has a calendar for scheduling, which includes a daily planner. An added bonus is that this app will even keep a grocery list for you along with your favorite recipes!
RescueTime
For those who need a little more help on top of task scheduling, RescueTime is there for people who find themselves unable to keep track of time while studying, playing games, or even watching a movie. It’s also a major help to students who find themselves trying to do research or writing, but find themselves distracted by a plethora of things that tend to pop up.
This app specifically will keep track of the amount of time you spend on a given task. It’s also built to keep people focused and distraction-free.
Mindmup
Sometimes a thesis can seem like a monster with many legs, arms, and heads. It’s everything that fills a person’s mind that ends up leading to a clog, preventing people from getting their thoughts straight, much less able to put pen to paper and complete a project.
Mindmup is an app that allows a person to take those thoughts and put them down in a more logical, progressive way so that a person is able to organize all of those thoughts into a thesis. For those who aren’t sure where to begin, there’s even a tutorial for newbies!
Mendeley
This is an app specifically oriented towards scholars that helps them research their topic and develop it into a working thesis. Mendeley allows its users to create their own library, which they can access from anywhere, including their Android.
Mendeley can also generate references, citations, and even bibliographies for those students who could use a little time-saving help.
EduBirdie
The most challenging thing about writing a dissertation or other major project is trying to get help with it. There are plenty of apps out there that do help but finding an actual person is a bit more difficult.
Fortunately, there is a way out. Anyone can get a high-quality dissertation from EduBirdie, or they can edit a thesis if that’s what is needed. It also has several other resources available online for any college student that needs them.
WolframAlpha
This app is also available on Android systems. The best way to think about this software is as a comprehensive encyclopedia for just about any subject. Doesn’t that just make it into Wikipedia? Not quite. This is more like a smart Wikipedia.
WolframAlpha is able to compute expert-level answers to just about any question asked of it, while Wikipedia is strictly read-only. This database uses algorithms and AI software to answer even the most seemingly obscure question.
Paperity
This may not be one of the excellent dissertation writing services, but it is the best option for those students who are on a budget and can’t afford a lot of subscriptions. Even for those with cash, though, it is a great resource for inspiration from all of the scholars who came before them.
Paperity contains a great pool of papers, journals, essays, and even thesis that are considered to be open access across the Internet. Be reminded that these papers are readily accessible online and are, therefore, easily discovered by plagiarism checkers, so use them as a reference, but not as a quick hand-in.
Grammarly
Once that paper is done, it’s time to hand it in, right? Wrong. It still needs to be proofread, and that’s where Grammarly comes in. This does have an app available, but most people usually use the online software which a person can set up an account for.
Grammarly’s great thing is that there is a free proofreader available for this software, but those looking for a truly polished essay might want to get a subscription to ensure they have all the bells and whistles that come with the full version.
Copywritely
The last thing in the list of online apps to help write an essay is one that makes sure your glowing thesis has nothing out there like it in the world. Yes, we know you wrote it and that it’s unique, but many people have been surprised in the past to discover that passages or paragraphs that they wrote were a little too inspired by ones they read. They don’t mean to plagiarize, but some do so unintentionally.
That’s where Copywritely comes in. It checks the entire Internet to see if your text matches anyone else, even Ph.D. writing services, and that’s perfect for peace of mind.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidMy phone only has Firefly as a ringtone. When I go to change it I get a message saying “choose path” then it has folders that are empty. The same thing happens with the notification sounds. Did it not come with any?Active Internet connectivity and the device should be running minimum Android 4.4 KiKat or above.
You can download APK file from the link below.
OneBox HD apk & mod will let you watch, stream, and download all the latest movies and TV shows on Android in HD quality. It is one of the best apps that include a huge collection of entertainment to keep you amused for countless hours with your choice of content including movies, TV shows, and Documentaries without ads.
About OneBox HD APK
OneBox HD APK for Android has an insanely enormous database of old as well as new movies and TV shows from different genres including but not limited to action, comedy, romance, sports, horror, biography, sci-fi, drama and whatnot. Even documentaries are available. Moreover, the majority of these movies, documentaries, and TV shows are available in HD quality with over 720p resolution.
When you launch the OneBox HD app, on the right-hand side, there are sections for movies, TV shows, favorites, and history. And each section has a subsection that lets you sort the movies and TV shows titles based on their popularity, ratings, recent updates, and new titles.
One of the best feature offered by the OneBox HD mod apk is that it let you download your favorite movies as well as all the episodes and seasons of your favorite TV shows without any restriction. The only limiting factor will be the availability of free storage space on your device.
OneBox HD natively supports Pro Player to provide its users with uninterrupted movies and TV shows streaming without any glitches. However, with the release of the latest update, the movie streaming app now requires you to have Pro Player, which is known as the MV CastPlayer in the Google Play Store, installed on your device to play movies and shows and let you watch your favorite titles.
The MV CastPlayer for Android is available for free to download from the Play Store and the OneBox HD app will automatically prompt you to download the Pro Player whenever you try to open any movie or shows from within the app. The on-screen notification will be something similar to the one showed in the screenshot below.
It will say, “you need to install a new player to support subtitles and play this video. It’s available and free on Google Play.” Simply tap on the “OK” button, and the Play Store should open automatically. You will see that the “MV CastPlayer” installation page has been automatically opened. Tap on the Install button.
Features of OneBox HD App for Android
OneBox HD is a future rich entertainment app that is compatible with a wide range of Android devices. Some of the most notable features include:
OneBox HD has one of the best user interface, which makes it easier and user-friendly for its users to navigate around the list of movies and TV shows.
The in-app filtration features like showing movies and TV shows from specific genres and dates of release will make it quicker for you to sort, find, and search for the movies.
Ability to download and store movies and videos on your device so that you can watch them later while you are offline or during those moments when you don’t have an active Internet connection.
Developers behind this app have added an automated scraping script within the app that automatically scans and updates the movies and TV shows database on a daily basis.
The latest version of the OneBox HD mod app now brings native support for Pro Player on all the Android devices to enjoy TV shows and movies without any interruption or streaming issues.
The OneBox HD mod version comes with an ad-free experience and doesn’t require you to install MV CastPlayer.
OneBox HD Demo Screenshot
Here are some of the demo screenshot of OneBox HD apk to show you the user interface as well as how the app looks like on Android devices:Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can't download directly via Google PlayStore. We do not own this app or brand and are not related in any way. All rights are reserved by original owners.
Super Mario Run is one of the best Android mobile gaming title released by Nintendo, one of the world’s largest video game companies, featuring the famous Mario character. The gameplay provides a simplified auto-running and side-scrolling gaming experience that allows you to play the game singlehandedly.
Similar to the classic Super Mario Bros., you need to control the Mario as he automatically runs from left to right, tap on the screen to make him jump through gaps and obstacles, collect coins and power-ups, and ultimately finishing the adventurous level in the fastest time possible.
Unlike other Mario games, the Super Mario Run is packed with a variety of exclusive gaming content to keep yourself indulged for longer periods.
Continue reading to find out more about the features and gaming modes introduced in this new mobile game title…
Super Mario Run Features
Super Mario Run is one of those games that you can play with one hand. All you really need to do is make the Mario run through the obstacles and hindrances to clear the level. However, in order to keep the gameplay interesting there are numerous new features:
World Tour consists of six different worlds and each of them contains twenty-four matchless courses.
Apart from the gold coins, there is an addition of three new special coins including black, purple, and pink, usually hidden in hard to reach areas.
Unlock new level by collecting the whole set of special coins, which will require you to play a single level around two to three times.
Power-ups include bubbles that slightly slow down the game to help you collect maximum coins and mushroom that increases the size of Mario.
Super Mario Run Game Modes
The Super Mario Run brings you over three exciting gaming modes that are challenging enough to keep you tied up for immeasurable hours of gameplay:
World Tour – Travel through caverns, plains, castles, airships by running and jumping to rescue Princess Peach from the clutches of the Koopa villain Bowser.
Toad Rally – Challenge mode where you will face a diverse level of competition on every gameplay as it involves a battle for the high score against your friends as well as players from all around the world.
Kingdom Builder – Acquire hundreds of building and decoration items using the Toads and coins you have acquired in the Toad Rally gaming mode, which can then be used to build your own unique kingdom.
Super Mario Run Gameplay Video
Check the video below to see how the Super Mario Run mobile video game looks like:i am looking a movie streaming app where i do not need to buy the subscriptionI had a problem with my S5 that it is constantly restarting, again and again, it can also be called as boot loop as it doesn’t get past the Samsung screen.
Please tell me a solution as I only have this phone to use and I can’t even use it, not even a single bit on its battery. It works fine if it is constantly plugged in.What happens is that in case you install a poorly developed app on your device and run it, the app will start to consume a considerable chunk of RAM and resources and continues to run in the background. That negatively affects your device’s performance.
To help you find and stop any of the resource-hungry apps, we have listed the best app killers for Android.
But before we move onto our list of best app killer for Android, we would first like to provide you some quick facts about how Android OS handles memory and why it could be a bad idea to frequently use an app killer to stop/kill essential apps on Android.
How Android OS Handles Memory/RAM?
For the beginners or for those who are unaware about the working of the Android OS, it is important to understand that Android handles the RAM in a completely different way as compared to the Windows OS (we compared it with Windows because that is what most of the users have used).
If you know how to see a list of currently running apps on Android, then you must have noticed that several apps are running all the time, even though you are not using them, right?
That is how Android is designed to handle apps. And that is precisely what allows the Android device to let you quickly open the apps as well as switch between multiple apps without waiting for them to load because those apps are already loaded in the RAM.
And in those cases, when you are running an app that requires a lot of RAM, for example, a gaming app, the Android OS will automatically kill the least necessary apps to free up memory and allocates it to the game.
And once you close that game, Android will automatically reopen any essential app that was killed/stopped during the process.
Even though the Android OS is smart enough to automatically kill and restart the background apps depending on your usage. But at times, some apps are poorly developed and have some flaws/memory leaks that use all of your device’s resources, ultimately making your device slow or unresponsive.
That is exactly when a need to use an app killer arises, which is designed to kill any buggy app or unresponsive task and will help you to quickly stop that app from eating up the resources hence making your phone responsive again.
How To Make The Most Out Of App Killer On Android
In most of the cases, app killers and task managers do more harm to your Android device than doing much good because the app killer itself would be continuously running in the background to help you monitor and stop an unresponsive app.
Or, in worst cases, using the app killer to kill essential apps will have a direct impact on your device’s performance that would ultimately drain the battery a lot faster.
You must be wondering that how killing an app is going to have any impact on the battery. Right?
What actually happens is, whenever you try to kill an app that is necessary and should not be stopped, Android will automatically restart it.
Moreover, this whole stopping and the restarting process of apps will unnecessarily consume your device’s resources, slows it down, and will negatively affect the battery.
Best App Killer & Task Manager Apps for Android
With that being said, app killers and task managers are specifically designed to help you kill and stop the poorly written app that continues to run in the background all the time without any reason.
Now, as you have learned about how to make the most out of the app killer, so without any further ado here are the six best app killer for Android:
1 – Native/Stock Android App Manager
In case you don’t know, Android comes with a native app manager that has a capability of app killer and lets you view a list of all the apps running on your device along with the amount of memory each of them is consuming and for how long they have been running.
The Android stock app killer is not only limited to that. It even allows you to force stop/kill those apps that are conflicting with your device or are resource hungry. And because this feature is built-in in your device and is much reliable, so we believe installing a third-party app is not necessary.
- Allow you to force stop app.
- It is preinstalled with Android system.
- Show the total RAM as well as available and currently consumed memory.
2 – Greenify
Greenify is not only a task killer but is an all-in-one system management tool that is capable of doing a lot more than simple application management tasks. It is more like a popular task manager app.
This task killer is capable of putting selected apps into hibernation when those apps are not in use. This way, the apps won’t be running in the background, won’t consume system resources, and will stop unusual draining of battery and will increase your phone’s overall battery life.
Although few features of Greenify require root, recently, Oasis Feng, the developer behind the app, has thoroughly overhauled the app, and now most of the features don’t require root.
- Manually end task from the list.
- Automated task killing and hibernation functionality.
- Detailed system information, including RAM usage, currently running apps, and storage space info.
- Find out which apps are slowing down your device.
- Home screen widget support.
3 – Super Tool Box – Free Boost & Clean, Power Saving
Super Task Killer is a reliable app manager and task killer app for Android that shows you a list of all the running apps as well as their trails, divided into an easy to identify categories. You can maintain your personalized whitelist where you can add frequently used apps, which you don’t want to be automatically killed.
Apart from the app killing functionalities, this app provides you several additional features, including regular automated cleaning, one-tap boost option, and power-saving mode to extend your phone’s standby time.
- One-tap boost your Android device.
- Regular cleaning which closes background apps automatically.
- Ability to add frequently used apps to your whitelist.
- Not fully compatible with devices running Android Marshmallow.
- Frequently using the boost option might consume a lot of battery and resources.
- Do not allow you to kill a single app manually.
4 – Taskmanager
Taskmanager is a steadfast app killer and app manager for Android that is easy to use, and based on the Android 5.0 Lollipop design. Similar to the stock application manager, this task manager also shows you a list of currently running apps and the amount of available RAM.
You can simply tap on the name of the running app from the list and then manually kill it right through the interface. You can even maintain an ignored list so that your frequently used apps are not killed accidentally.
- Ability to kill one app at a time.
- Three different themes to choose from.
- Ad-free and does not require any payment.
- Maintain your own ignored list.
- No auto task killing.
5 – Task Killer
Task Killer is an app that is specifically designed to help you kill an unresponsive or resource-hungry app that is slowing your device, causing it to operate sluggishly. With the Task Killer, you can once again speed up your device by killer unwanted apps that are continuously running in the background.
What’s unique in this app is that you can kill the selected app in just one click, and there’s an ability to automatically kill the app and keep your device at its optimal working condition. The app also shows you the total amount of RAM being consumed by each app to make it easier for you to decide which app needs to be stopped.
- Manually kill/force stop selected apps.
- Ability to stop apps with one tap.
- Auto kills will automatically kill apps within the specified interval.
- Add apps you don’t want to kill on the ignored list.
- Contains ads.
- Auto app killing functionality might increase your device’s battery consumption (depending upon the assigned interval).
6 – Task Manager (Task Killer)
The Task Manager is actually a task killer with easy to use UI with the ability to kill selected apps whenever the screen is turned off automatically. The manager will show you a list of all the running apps that can be easily rearranged in alphabetical order.
Upon successfully killing all the apps, if you have enabled the feature notification, the app will prepare and show you a summary of apps auto-killed as well as the RAM freed by the Task Killer.
- Ability to force stop/to kill the app manually.
- Add any app to the ignore list.
- Add apps to the auto-kill list and get them killed when the screen is turned off.
- Home screen one-tap widget support.
- Contains ads.
Conclusion
Which app killer do you use to force stop unresponsive and resource-hungry apps on your Android device? Did we forget to mention your favorite app killer?
Please share your valuable opinions in the comments below. 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidHere we have included the 10 best calendar apps that are suitable for Android smartphones as well as tablet devices and will keep reminding you about your important events and appointments ahead of the time without any delay.
1 – New Calendar
New Calendar is one of the most simplified, user-friendly, and includes some of the most common calendar functionalities that will enable you to manage your schedule while helping you keep yourself organized and productive. The plus point of this app is that you can even sync it with your existing schedules stored within the Google Calendar.
The app provides you with several calendar views, including daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly. And you can even search for all of your scheduled events using the built-in search feature. You will also get a To-do list as well as time for every city in the world, which will make it easier for you to schedule foreign events.
Pros
- Support public holidays for more than thirty regions.
- Voice reminder functionality.
- Support over ten different widgets.
Cons
2 – Month: Calendar Widget
As the name of the app itself suggests, Month: Calendar Widget is simply a widget app that provides you with quick access to calendar and agenda to keep track of your daily schedule right from the home screen.
Since it is a basic widget app, it contains over eighty exceptionally designed modern and beautiful widgets. And the widgets are perfectly designed so that it can integrate seamlessly into any home screen layout.
Pros
- Sync with Google Calendar.
- Access your schedule and to-do list right from the widget.
Cons
- Does not include some basic calendar features.
- Additional widgets need to be purchased individually via in-app purchases.
- Contains ads.
3 – Business Calendar 2
Business Calendar 2 is one of the most powerful calendar apps that are fast and easy to use and provides you with access to weather, tasks, and widgets. There are different calendar views, including month view, week view, day view, and agenda, so that you can keep track of your day-to-day tasks.
The app provides you with numerous functionalities, including a custom reminder functionality for each event with several choices such as days, hours, and minutes. The user interface is well designed. There’s also an option that lets you assign your choice of color to the event to make it easier for you to distinguish.
Pros
- Offer over twenty-two themes and seven widgets as well as more than fifty customizable widget options.
- Feature to move and delete multiple events at once.
- Provide access to pro features via in-app purchases.
- Sync events with Google Calendar and Exchange.
Cons
- Some worthy features have been removed from the app.
4 – aCalendar
aCalendar is the most simplified, effective, lightweight, and classic-styled calendar app that is developed by a team of developers based in Germany. Just like any other calendar app, you will have three overview options, i.e., month, week, and day.
Once you have installed the app, it will synchronize with your Google account and will then display all the available calendar events automatically. And because it connects with your Google account, you can easily create an event and associate it with the relevant contact. You can use different types of reminders to make sure you don’t miss an important event.
Pros
- Assign your event a unique color.
- Swipe function to quickly move forward and backward.
- It can be upgraded to the premium version to remove ads and add additional premium calendar features.
Cons
- The free version contains occasional ads.
5 – DigiCal Calendar Agenda
DigiCal Calendar app makes it easy for you to schedule and review your events. It has a great, intuitive, and straightforward design that provides a clear overview of all the events, allows you to copy and paste events along with the unique ability to customize the calendar according to your personal tastefully.
The app gives you easy access to the calendar while making it simple for you to manage events and appointments. You can assign a different color to a different event. And it can sync all of your events stored in Google Calendar, Microsoft Exchange, and Outlook.
Pros
- Over six different calendar widgets.
- Material design, along with a dark theme for nighttime usage.
- Provide in-app purchases for DigiCal+ premium version with innovative features and no advertisements.
Cons
- Contains ads.
- Less frequent updates.
6 – Jorte Calendar, Personal Planner and Diary
Jorte is not just a calendar, but it is also an organizer app that has a pleasant looking, a natural calendar that will fulfill all of your scheduling and organizing needs. You can easily use it for both businesses as well as personal events.
The app provides you with a wide variety of widgets so that you can keep track of your events right from the home screen. The app has the capability to sync with numerous calendar services, task managers, and note apps, including Microsoft Office 365, Google Task, Google Calendar, Evernote, and several others.
Pros
- Receive frequent updates for bug fixes and improvements.
- One of the most highly customizable calendar apps.
- Have an in-app purchases option that allows you to remove ads and add premium features.
Cons
- Contains ads.
- Several features that were being offered for free are now premium.
7 – Google Calendar
Google Calendar is the official calendar app for Android phones, and most probably, you are not satisfied with this app, which is the reason why you were looking for the best apps. However, many Android phones do not come preinstalled with Google Calendar. And if you are one of those, then I will recommend you to try this app.
The reason is that the official Google Calendar app is well integrated with other Google apps like Gmail and Google Now. So let’s suppose you have received an email about your flight confirmation or hotel reservation, the Google Calendar app will automatically add that to the events list.
Apart from that, the app works pretty well with Microsoft Exchange too!
Pros
- Receive frequent updates for bug fixes, performance improvements, and new features.
- No ads.
Cons
- The interface of the updated app might look clumsy and cluttered.
8 – Cal – Calendar + Widget
Cal is basically a combination of both Calendar and Widget, and both of them will help you keep an eye on your schedule so that you can accomplish more in a day. The interface is clutter-free, and there are no complicated steps between you and your agenda.
The sync feature supports both Google Calendar as well as Microsoft Exchange. It even allows you to naturally merge both event types, business and personal, in one place. In contrast, the Android home screen widget will allow you to review your day without even opening the calendar app.
Pros
- Contains over nine photo-based themes.
- Reach your event location faster and easily with built-in support for Google Maps, Uber, and Waze.
- No advertisements.
Cons
- Less frequent updates.
- The developer usually never responds to the issues.
9 – SolCalendar
SolCalendar will help you to get yourself strikingly systematized and stay on track and ahead of your schedule. It allows you to manage your tasks and time during your busy day effectively. The built-in weather forecast system will keep you updated on the weather changes every day.
The best feature of SolCalendar is that it allows you to synchronize and manage all of your calendars in a single app, including Google Calendar, Microsoft Exchange, iCloud, Yahoo! Calendar, and any other calendar service that supports CalDAV.
Pros
- All-in-one solution to manage multiple calendars.
- It is frequently updated.
- Contains no ads and no in-app purchases.
Cons
- The developer doesn’t usually respond to the user’s issues.
10 – Tiny Calendar
Tiny Calendar is a hashed version of Google Calendar and Apple’s iOS Calendar. The developers have taken all the most exceptional features from both apps and have merged them into their apps. They have also designed their app in such a way that it gives you increased control over your entire schedule.
To serve the event tracking purpose well, developers have included over seven different calendar views along with some unique widgets that give you daily, weekly, monthly, schedule as well as mini month view of your calendar. Moreover, the app has a unique ‘drag and drop’ function that allows you to move events in a matter of seconds.
Pros
- Drag and drop feature.
- Sync calendar events between multiple platforms.
- Ability to add and edit events while offline.
- Ads can be removed by purchasing the Tiny Calendar Pro version for $5.
Cons
- Contains ads.
- Some features require polishing.
Which Calendar App Is Your Favorite?
It does not matter which app you use on your Android phone. What matters is that it should suit your requirements, fulfill your needs, and help you to keep yourself organized.
Do you have any favorite calendar apps? Please share with us your views and opinions in the comments section down below. We would love to hear about them! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidInsTube apk YouTube downloader app for Android phone and tablet devices that let you download your favorite music and videos from websites like YouTube, Instagram, Facebook. The InsTube app for Android is one of the best apps for downloading videos and music from online streaming websites and social media sites that do not allow downloading of any content.
About InsTube APK
The majority of online videos and music streaming websites like YouTube, SoundCloud, DailyMotion, and other similar sites will never allow you to download content and you can only watch or listen to the content when you are connected to the Internet.
However, with the help of InsTube apk, you will be able to download any video and music from your favorite content streaming websites and store it on your Android phone/tablet to listen and watch them whenever you want without any necessity for the Internet connection. Which makes it one of the best online videos downloader apps for Android.
Features of InsTube for Android
InsTube apk offers some of the most useful features to help you with downloading, management, and protection of all your downloaded videos and music media. Those features are as follows:
- Support For Variety Of Video Formats – 3GP, MP4, AVI, MKV, RMVB, MPEG, WMV, RM, and few others.
- Clipboard Link Identification – You can enable/disable clipboard link identification that allows the app to detect copied video URL from the clipboard.
- Fast Download Mode – Speeds up the downloading of videos and music using multiple connections.
- Private Space – Private space will allow you to lock any video behind a passcode to protect your personal privacy and make sure no one can access it without your permission.
- Download Videos In Various Resolutions – App allows you to download videos in various different resolutions and qualities including 144p, 240p, 320p, 360p, 480p, 640p, 720p, 1080p, 1280p.
- Option To Download Audio-Only Version – You can download the audio-only version of any video or music video in M4A or MP3 format.
- Stream/Listen To Videos Directly From The App – Let you stream and listen to music or watch your favorite video content from within the app.
- Play Music And Videos Stored On Your Phone – The app can find and detect all the music and video media files stored on your Android phone/tablet and let you play them.
Videos & Music Sites Supported By InsTube
InsTube app supports downloading of videos and music from lots of online video streaming websites, which includes some of the most popular sites like:
- YouTube,
- Facebook,
- Instagram,
- DailyMotion,
- MetaCafe,
- Vimeo,
- Vevo,
- SoundCloud,
And dozens of other online videos and music streaming sites. Apart from these pre-added websites, you can even add your own personal favorites using the “Add” button located on the home page of the app.
In case any of your favorite video streaming websites are not listed in the app then you can simply use the search/URL bar located at the top of the homepage of the app.
InsTube Demo Screenshots
Attached below are the demo screenshots of InsTube apk to help you know how the app works and how it actually looks like on Android devices.Spotify account,
Internet connectivity to stream music.
You can download APK file from the link below.
Previous Versions
Spotify Premium apk mod latest version for Android available for download to help you enjoy endless music without interruption. In this blog post, you will learn the following:
A download link to quickly get Spotify Premium cracked and modded version for Android no root, which is available for free to download.
A brief guide on how to download and install it on your Android phone and tablet devices and enjoy unlimited music for free.
Spotify Premium gives you unlimited skips, blocks advertisements, play any music from any playlist, no shuffle, offline listening experience, premium sound quality, and a lot more.
For Spotify offline listening and downloading music, please check the section “How to download music from Spotify.”
At the end of this article, we have shared frequently asked questions (FAQs), where we have answered all of your questions and queries.
We know the Spotify free version gets annoying to use because of limitations like limited song skips, no permission to listen to music in high (extreme) quality, and shows a lot of visual/audio ads in between the songs. All of which completely ruins the music listening experience.
But you don’t have to worry anymore as the mod and cracked Spotify Premium version will help you get almost all the premium features without paying the premium subscription fee.
Spotify mod will unlock all the premium features, including unlimited skips, ability to play any song from the playlist, unlimited shuffle, block all ads, option to enable high-quality music playback with seek bar enabled.
With that being said, if you were searching for the 100% working modded Spotify app that offers premium features, then your search is finally over as here you are going to learn about how to download, install, and get Spotify premium apk for free on Android.
What Is Spotify and How Spotify Premium APK Works?
We all are very well aware that Spotify Premium is a modded and cracked version of the free Spotify online music streaming service where you can find music, song, podcast, audiobooks, novels, poetry, comedy, soundtrack, and whatnot. Every soundtrack that is suitable for any moment of your life is available.
You can quickly search for songs, discover new music, and play your favorite titles.
Share your favorite soundtracks with your friends for free without any restrictions.
It gives you instant access to the world of music.
Find any music from any genre –from old classic songs and vintage radio to the latest hits.
Create your personalized playlists for podcasts or music.
Discover music based on your mood or your recent song listening activity.
All you need to do is hit the play button and start streaming any music you like from any genre on your Android phone and tablet devices.
Download Spotify Premium Mod APK for Android
You can download the latest Spotify Premium app for your Android smartphone and tablet devices from download links already given at the beginning of this page.
The Spotify Premium apk shared with you is thoroughly checked, free from viruses, verified, secure, and safe to install and use on any Android device. We always make sure to update this page with the latest version so if you are one of those who always want to have the newest version, then we will recommend you to bookmark this page.
Psst… You can get Spotify Premium for free not only on Android but all of your phone and computer devices including iPhone on iOS, Mac OS, and Windows PC using our ultimate guide. 😉
And don’t forget that we at BestForAndroid do not support piracy in any way, and the provided app is only for demo and educational purposes.
Spotify Mod Info
Based on the unlocked mod (Credits MrDude) with the following features:
Unlocked Spotify Connect,
Visual ads blocked,
Audio ads blocked,
Seeking enabled,
Unlimited shuffle,
Choose any song,
Extreme audio unlocked,
Repeats enabled,
Canvas enabled,
Storyline enabled,
Disabled/Removed unwanted Permissions + Receivers and Services,
Analytics/Crashlytics disabled.
How to Install Spotify Premium APK on Android
Here is a complete step-by-step guide to assist you with the downloading and installation process of Spotify Premium app on Android:
DISCLAIMER: We at BestForAndroid will not be held responsible if Spotify terminates or suspends your account due to the usage of the Spotify Premium mod app. All information provided here is strictly for educational purposes, and we are not responsible for how you decide to use the information provided.
Download the latest version of Spotify Premium apk from the download link given in the beginning.
For safety purposes, the file you downloaded will be in a zip format. You need to use the built-in file manager or any file explorer of your choice to extract/unzip the file.
Once unzipped/extracted, now tap on the extracted apk file to begin the installation. The file will be named as com.spotify.music.apk.
Depending on the version of Android OS running on your phone, you may see a warning message that says, “For your security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source.” Tap on the Settings button.
A new menu will open with an option that says, Allow from this source. Tap on the toggle switch right next to it to enable the installation.
Now go back to the installation screen. You will see a list of all the permissions required by the app (if there is any). Tap on the Install button.
Tap on the Open button to launch the Spotify Premium app.
Now to sign in to your Spotify account, you will need to log in using your Spotify credentials, i.e., your email address and password. If you don’t already have an account, then we will recommend you to create one. Otherwise, you can also use the Facebook Connect option.
Once you are logged in to Spotify, you should then be able to enjoy the premium features. Which includes playing any music from the playlist, unlimited skips, extreme sound quality streaming along with other premium features we have already mentioned in the Spotify Premium features section below.
If, in any case, you are unable to log in to Spotify then we will recommend you to check the FAQs section at the end of this article where we have a troubleshooting guide to help you fix all the known issues.
How to Download Music from Spotify?
Having the Spotify Premium mod will never let you download music from Spotify for offline listening because those features require a direct connection to the Spotify servers, which you can only get with the Spotify Premium account.
However, we have a 100% working alternative for our readers considering how much each one of you wants to have offline listening and music downloading feature.
So, without any further ado, here is how you can download music from Spotify:
Have you ever heard about Deezer? It is another fantastic music streaming service that offers over 56 million music, podcasts, soundtracks, audio channels, radio stations, and whatnot. You can find more music than Spotify.
And can you guess what the best thing is?
The Deezer will let you download music for offline listening without any limitations, and the mod version will unlock everything for you, unlike Spotify.
To start downloading your whole music playlist for offline listening, all you need to do is to download this free Deezer Premium mod and install it on your device.
It’s that simple. 😉
Features Of Spotify Premium Version
As already mentioned at the beginning, Spotify Premium requires a paid subscription because it offers you some of the best features to make your music listening experience better than ever.
However, with the provided Spotify Premium app, you can enjoy all the paid features without paying a penny; and we will guide you about that in a while.
Here are some of the unique Spotify Premium features you can enjoy:
Download Music And Offline Listening – You are allowed to download your whole playlist (limited to 3,333 tracks) and listen to them even when you are somewhere without active Internet connectivity. Offline listening helps you save a significant amount of Internet data and bandwidth.
Extreme Sound Quality – Each soundtrack is available in three different qualities, i.e., Normal, High, and Extreme. The extreme quality is known as Premium, in which the music is played at 320Kbps, making your music experience more enjoyable and immersive.
Zero Commercial – You can listen to your favorite music and soundtracks without witnessing a single piece of commercial and advertisement, including the removal of audio and visual ads. So, there will be zero interruption in your music listening experience.
Play Any Soundtrack – Yes, the Freemium version does not allow you to skip the track. But with the Spotify Premium apk, you will gain more control over the player as it enables you to play any music you want whenever you want without any limitation. Just find and play.
Unlimited Music Skips – Now, you don’t have to wait for the music to end because you will have the ultimate ability to skip the current music at any time you want and start listening to the next soundtrack on your playlist.
Seeking Enabled – You can easily select, choose, and play any specific part of the music, podcast, or soundtrack as the seek bar is enabled and let you rewind and forward as well.
Unlimited Shuffle – Yes, the Freemium version limits you with shuffling, and you cannot play any soundtrack you want from the playlist. But with the Premium, you will get unlimited shuffle.
Save Storage Space – By online streaming all of your favorite music and soundtracks right from Spotify’s servers, you will be able to save a significant amount of storage space on your device. However, streaming music will consume a bit of your Internet data, so be wise while you are traveling or away from WiFi connectivity to save bandwidth.
Do you know, with this Spotify Premium mod, you can avoid the Spotify country restriction while you are traveling abroad? The procedure is straightforward, and here is a step-by-step guide on how to bypass country restrictions within a matter of minutes and continue enjoying all the premium features regardless of your geolocation 😉
Difference Between Spotify Premium & Spotify Free Version
Spotify Premium has become one of the biggest music streaming service providers. It is well known for providing an excellent online music service that allows you to listen to any music you want. You will find a massive music collection on their online servers.
Officially, there are two options to enjoy music streaming services of Spotify, i.e., Freemium and Premium.
The Spotify Freemium version gives you access to all music and offers:
Unlimited listening time,
Provides a basic set of features,
Shows advertisements,
Does not allow you to download music for offline listening,
The quality of the soundtrack is set to 128kbps.
However, with the Spotify Premium, you will get an interruption-free music listening experience as well as the following:
Zero advertisements,
Blocked audio ads and video ads,
Ability to download music for offline listening,
Play music and songs in extreme high quality, i.e., 320kbps,
Option to seek, rewind, and forward soundtracks,
You can shuffle songs for an unlimited number of times,
Get unlimited skips,
Music repeat option is unlocked,
You get to play any song you want from any playlist,
Log in to your Spotify account using Facebook Connect,
It is essential to mention here that some server-side features cannot be modded and requires you to have a paid Spotify Premium subscription.
How to Get Spotify Premium for Cheap?
If you are a Spotify Premium subscriber then apart from taking advantage of those remarkable features mentioned above, there are a couple of other discounted offers that you may be able to avail if you have plans to stay a Spotify Premium user:
Spotify Premium for Students – Costs about $4.99 per month.
Spotify Premium for Family – Costs about $14.99 per month.
Depending on your conditions, both of these are perfect choices if you want to save some money on the usual premium subscription billing charges.
Even though the pricing of Spotify Premium subscription is affordable and users opt for their premium offer. Still, many cannot pay for Premium even if they want to, because Spotify is not officially available in their country.
And that alone is the key reason why users from those countries are left with no other option but to download Spotify Premium mod for Android and continue enjoying premium features free.
Spotify Premium Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
We at BestForAndroid value our readers the most, we have created this section to quickly guide you and answer all of your frequently asked questions related to Spotify Premium apk.
We have designed this section to help save your time so you won’t have to spend your precious time searching or commenting in the comments section for possible solutions to your problems.
Spotify logged me out automatically and did not let me log in. What is the issue?
All you need to do is clear the cache and data of the Spotify app and then use any VPN app to bypass the login problem.
In case you didn’t understand what we just said above, then follow this simple step-by-step tutorial below:
On your Android, go to Settings and tap on Apps.
In the list of apps, look for Spotify and tap it.
Under the Spotify app info page, tap on Storage.
Tap on the clear data and clear cache to reset the Spotify app (important step).
A popup message will appear. Simply tap Delete.
Download the Browsec VPN app from the Google Play Store and enable VPN (use ‘United States’ as a VPN location).
Launch Spotify and log in using your credentials, and once you are successfully logged in, you can disable the VPN.
Why am I unable to login to Spotify Premium mod app using Facebook Connect?
Spotify mod sometimes interferes with the Facebook app already installed on your Android and shows login error: “there is an error in logging you into this app. Please try again later.”
Here is a quick and simple workaround:
Uninstall or disable the Facebook app on your Android device.
Open the Spotify app and click on Continue with the Facebook button.
A Facebook login page will appear, enter your account credentials and tap on sign in. You should be logged in to your Spotify account.
You can now open the Play Store, download and install the Facebook app again and log in to your Facebook account.
Spotify is not officially available in my country. How can I bypass country restrictions?
Did you see a message that says, “Spotify is not available in your country?” Simply follow our 100% tested and working workaround to bypass Spotify country restriction.First, download and install Spotify Premium mod on your Android using the tutorial given above. Then, head over to our step-by-step guide here, which will help you remove country restrictions and use Spotify Premium app for free on Android.
What is Spotify Premium mod apk, and how does it work?
Spotify Premium is a modified and hacked version of the original Spotify app. It is designed to unlock all the Spotify Premium features without paying for a subscription for an unlimited period on Android devices.
Is it safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk?
Yes, it is completely safe to download, install, and use Spotify Premium apk on Android devices.We always perform thorough tests on Android apps to check for viruses and malicious codes, and we found the Spotify Premium app to be completely safe from viruses and security issues.
Why am I unable to skip songs on Spotify and don’t have unlimited skips?
It usually happens when you already have an official Spotify app installed on your Android device, and then you try to install the Spotify mod app on top of it.The only way to fix this is to first completely uninstall the original Spotify app from your device, then download the Spotify Premium app from the link given at the beginning of this article and do a fresh installation. We already have a detailed installation tutorial above.
Why is Spotify asking to upgrade to Premium when I tried to download music?
Spotify offers two account types, i.e., Free and Premium. Features like offline listening, music, and album downloading are server-sided and directly linked to your Spotify account type.If you have a free Spotify account but using the Spotify mod app as a bypass to enjoy premium features, then you won’t be able to download any music. You need to have a Spotify Premium account too to be able to unlock offline listening and downloading.
How much does it cost to get Spotify Premium for a year?
If you want to purchase Spotify Premium, it will cost you $9.99 per month. The student memberships cost $4.99. Some special offers and discount deals also give you the first three months subscription for under $3.99.
If your question is not answered in this FAQ section or maybe, you have a completely different issue related to Spotify Premium apk mod. In that case, please feel free to leave your query in the comments section below, and someone from our team will get back to you with a working solution.
I’m getting a msg saying install wont complete. Any help?
Which version did you download?
Awesomeness
I am so happy, thank you so much!|Topic ||||Replies ||Views ||Activity |
|About the General Discussions category || ||0 ||702 ||March 6, 2017 |
|Welcome to Best Android Forum || ||0 ||1746 ||April 12, 2016 |
|Spotify Free Premium APK Song Download Problem || ||11 ||7215 ||October 26, 2020 |
|How To Set Spotify Song as Alarm on Android || ||2 ||105 ||October 9, 2020 |
|Free Spotify premium! || ||11 ||2099 ||September 25, 2020 |
|Best Free Ringtones For Android || ||24 ||4194 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Questions about Spotify Premium APK || ||6 ||1789 ||September 23, 2020 |
|Spotify closing out for no reason || ||2 ||181 ||September 15, 2020 |
|Can't add song from Google Play as my ringtone. || ||6 ||810 ||April 17, 2020 |
|How To Download Any YouTube Video On Android? || ||17 ||2752 ||April 4, 2019 |
|Is McAfee Activate antivirus good for Android || ||4 ||346 ||January 16, 2020 |
|Does 2TB Micro SD Card exist? Which phone supports it? || ||5 ||1796 ||November 28, 2019 |
|Samsung Health is a Great app to track your Fitness || ||4 ||881 ||July 18, 2019 |
|Huawei Mate 9 reboots, unkown IMEI || ||10 ||755 ||July 29, 2018 |
|How to share app after patch || ||0 ||439 ||July 10, 2018 |
|Re: Razer phone || ||2 ||838 ||April 30, 2018 |
|HI, I am New here on "Best for Android" || ||3 ||693 ||March 24, 2018 |
|Can't Install Showbox - Help Required || ||5 ||717 ||March 13, 2018 |
|Samsung Galaxies Backs are Fragile - My S8 Got Cracks || ||7 ||829 ||January 3, 2018 |
|How to Bypass Google Factory Reset Protection (FRP) on Samsung Devices? || ||2 ||1209 ||December 31, 2017 |
|Classic Nokia 3310 Relaunched at MWC 2017 as Android phone || ||3 ||1636 ||March 21, 2017 |- We have reviewed some of the most trustworthy, effective, and best spam call blocker apps for Android to help you get rid of spam calls and block robocalls on your phone.
- There are call blocker apps that blocks calls from unknown numbers with not reachable message option.
- You can completely block all the unwanted phone calls from strangers, telemarketers, and only receive calls from those who are already in your contacts list/phonebook.
- Some apps even offers you one of the most wanted answer and hang up feature to block spam phone calls.
- You will even find calls blocker apps that blocks calls without ringing your phone, all silently. And you can even choose if you want to receive notification for that or not.
Are you tired of rejecting unwanted calls from unknown numbers that disturbs you while you are busy at work? Or are you in search for a way to block all the unknown callers from calling you while you are asleep? You are not alone.
We all are annoyed by those spam calls by scammers and telemarketing agencies. Let’s look at the list of best call blocking apps for Android devices.
Best Robocall and Spam Call Blocking Apps for Android
All of the call blocking apps we have reviewed in this blog post are user-friendly, effective, trustworthy, and gives you a complete control over all the incoming calls.
You can even create a blacklist, which is a list of phone numbers or unwanted callers you want to block and from whom you don’t want to receive any calls.
1. Calls Blacklist – Call Blocker
Calls Blacklist – Call Blocker is an all-in-one solution to manage your blacklisted numbers. You can block all the incoming calls as well as SMS from those numbers.
The app provides you with a clutter free and an easy to use interface so that you can concentrate on blocking unwanted callers rather than spending time to understand the working of the app itself.
For those who don’t want to spend much time to maintain blacklist and looking for a straightforward way to block calls and messages, you can enable any of the preconfigured blocking option i.e. All Calls, Unknown Numbers, or Private Numbers.
- Uses blacklist to block calls and SMS from unwanted numbers.
- Completely block a specific number range using ‘begins with’ feature.
- Option to block calls and messages from alphanumeric numbers.
- Silently block spam calls without receiving notification about them.
- Provides you with a complete log of blocked numbers.
2. Mr. Number – Block Calls & Spam
Tired of receiving spam calls every once in a while? Install Mr. Number app on your Android phone and get rid of all those unwanted phone calls.
Mr. Number, with its advanced call blocking features, allows you to block calls from any specific area code, a person, or even the entire world.
To make your personalized blacklist, the app provides you with a native search functionality that digs deep down into your recent caller list to help you find the numbers you want to put a complete block on.
- Block fraudulent and spam calls.
- Use the Mr. Number native smart dialer to look up numbers that are not in your contact list.
- Call log shows names and relevant pictures of all the callers.
- The huge number database helps you find out who is calling, all within a matter of seconds.
- One of the best protection system from unwanted callers and robocalls.
3. Should I Answer?
Yes, Should I Answer is the name of the call blocker app designed for Android. It is a two in one app, which means it can help you block unwanted and spam calls as well as an active database of reported and robocall numbers used by telemarketers and advertisers.
Should I Answer call blocking app has different call blocking levels and you can select the one that best suits your requirements. It can completely block premium phone numbers, foreign numbers, and alphanumeric numbers to provide uncompromised protection from spammers trying to reach you.
Best thing about this app is that it works even when you are offline and don’t have an active Internet connection, which means continuous call blocking.
- Ever growing database of spammy numbers and callers based on the anonymous user reports and ratings.
- Blocks unwanted calls and robocalls to provide you with a disturbance free usage experience.
- Three different levels of call blocking options including active protection, passive protection, and zero protection.
- App automatically checks every call you receive for spam reports, even when you are offline.
4. Call Blocker Free – Blacklist and Whitelist
Call Blocker Free is another call blocker app that doesn’t put any load on your phone’s RAM and resources.
Apart from maintaining blacklist, you can even prepare a whitelist to make sure that you never miss any important phone calls and those whitelisted contacts can always reach you.
You can also configure the app to notify you whenever any incoming call has been blocked.
- Block calls and messages from unknown and spammy numbers with multiple blocking modes.
- Create a personalized blacklist where you can add all the numbers from whom you don’t want to receive calls.
- Option to create a whitelist in which you can add all those important phone numbers so they can reach you anytime they want and won’t get accidently blocked.
- Prevent phone scammers from reaching you by detecting the number and automatically stopping it at the first ring.
- Custom calls blocking setup where you can select between accepting calls from white list and contacts or accept calls only from whitelist.
5. Hiya Spam Call Blocker & Phone Number Lookup
Hiya is a smart call blocker app that has a capability to block all the spam phone calls as well as provide you with a notification whenever you receive a robocall or phone call from suspected telemarketer or fraud.
Apart from the spam calls blocking capabilities, Hiya also provides features like phone number lookup, call management, caller ID functionality. Availability of these unique features all within a single app is what makes it one of the best call blocker apps for Android platform.
- Simple and straightforward procedure to automatically block all the incoming spam calls.
- Built-in spam alerts that warn you about all the spammy phone calls based on the user ratings and reviews for added accuracy.
- Protect your phone and save your precious time by providing you with a phone spam protection that protects you from telemarketers and unwanted calls.
- The number lookup feature will tell you who is actually calling, whether it is a robocall or your friend, you will receive a real-time update about the number.
6. Call Control – Call Blocker
Call Control – Call Blocker by Kedlin Company is specifically targeted towards those who receive scam calls, robotic calls, automated calls, and any other spam calls.
The app is one of the most popular, have a healthy community of over 12 million active users who contribute everyday to maintain a Call Control database of spam callers.
- Automatic call blocking functionality to protect your phone from spammers and telemarketers.
- An active community that reports all the spam numbers and robocalls to further enhance the automatic call blocking.
- Comes with smart dialer and enhanced caller ID to make and block calls as well as to find out who is calling you.
- Do not disturb mode, once enabled and scheduled will not allow anyone to reach your number during the specified time.
- As an added feature, Call Control can block spam text messages as well.
7. Call Blocker
Unlike other call blocker apps, Call Blocker app by AndroidRock does not cause a lot of battery drainage because it is a lightweight app and also doesn’t consume a lot of storage space.
This is what makes this app suitable for those Android phones that have limited CPU and RAM resources to run an app bundled with a lot of features and functionalities.
- Easy to use and has a user-friendly interface to block unwanted phone calls.
- Has the ability to block private numbers.
- Organized and well informed log of all the blocked phone numbers.
- Create a whitelist to allow specific numbers and contacts to reach you.
- Block all the unknown and stranger number from reaching you including robocalls.
8. RoboKiller – Stop Spam and Robocalls
As the name of the app name suggests, RoboKiller protects you from unwanted phone calls and blocks spam numbers by using automated answer bots that are smart enough to automatically recognize whether the caller is a spam caller or a genuine contact. You are free to customize your answer bot.
RoboKiller is an award-winning call-blocking app that saves your smartphone from spammers and block phone calls. A well-known call blocker helps you in getting rid of telemarketers and spammers.
- Protect your Android phone from telemarketers, spam calls, and robocalls.
- All of your blocked numbers and contacts will be visible in a separate section within the RoboKiller app recent section.
- Predictive call-blocking power with an award winning audio-fingerprinting technology to protect your phone from spam.
- Automatically blocks spam numbers and add them to your blacklist without making your phone ring for once.
9. Truecaller
Truecaller is one of the most popular and the most trusted app among Android users, especially due to their seamless caller ID functionality. They have recently introduced spam calls blocking feature to help people with avoiding robocalls and telemarketers from disturbing, thanks to their huge number database that they have built during the past several years.
One of the good aspect of Truecaller is its dialer. It can automatically identify who is calling you along with their other relevant details. You can even record all of your phone calls and save them on your phone’s internal storage for later access. The recording feature may not work on latest Android versions though.
- One of the best and matchless caller ID feature to find out who is trying to call you.
- Built-in intelligent phone dialer.
- Record and manage all of your phone calls and conversations for quick access later on.
- Has a community based and ever updated list of spam callers and numbers to automatically block unwanted phone numbers.
- Offers Truecaller Premium version to gain access to additional features like private profile, special contacts requests, remove advertisements.
10. Whoscall – Call Blocking and Caller ID
Whoscall is well known for providing its users with trustworthy and spam free telephonic communication system along with their state of the art spam calls and SMS blocking feature. Moreover, their caller ID feature will provide you with a real-time update on who is calling you and from which location. This also works even when you are offline.
The app Whoscall is trusted by hundreds and thousands of users from all around the world as they have been providing call blocking and robocalls from calling your number.
- Identify unknown callers using the caller ID functionality and find out who is calling you within seconds.
- Blocking spam numbers and calls to avoid fraud and annoying calls from reaching your number.
- If you have any unknown phone number then simply use the search number feature and Whoscall will tell you the name and identity of that number.
- Safe SMS messenger by Whoscall will keep your conversations secure and spam free, even if the number is not in your contact list.
- Whoscall even offers premium bundle to provide exceptional spam and unwanted calls blocking services.
11. Call Blocker
Call Blocker app by Sappalodapps is an emerging call blocking app that have the ability to block spam calls and SMS on Android.
Even though the app is packed with all the call blocking features, the developer has managed to keep the app lightweight, small in size and consumes insignificant amount of resources.
You can even put a password to protect and secure your blacklist from any unwanted access.
- Provides a caller ID feature to let you know who is calling, even if the number is not in your contacts list.
- Easy to block spam numbers with just a simple tap of a button.
- Create a custom blacklist and whitelist for those numbers you want to allow and block.
- Quick access to the call blocker app settings to customize the blocking method.
- Build caller profile and define how you want the call blocker to block unwanted phone calls.
12. AT&T Call Protect
If you are AT&T customer and want to protect your phone from unwanted callers or spammers from reaching your number then AT&T Call Protect is your best bet. The company offers one of the best call blocking functionality for its customers using their own powerful network to keep their callers safe and secure from spam callers and fraud numbers.
AT&T always updates their database with new spam numbers but if you have received a phone call from spam number but it wasn’t filtered by the app then you can safely report it to AT&T and identify suspected spam caller to stop them from reaching you again in future.
- Automated calls and spam blocking without making your phone ring even for once.
- Ability to manage unwanted calls and messages at your convenience from within the app.
- The AT&T caller ID feature will inform you well ahead when your phone rings about who is calling you so you can decide if you want to answer or not.
- View all the callers details and call log from within the AT&T Call Protect app.
- Create your very own and personalized list of block list where you can easily add individual callers and phone numbers.
Which Call Blocker Is Your Personal Favourite?
Out of the 12 best spam call blocker apps for Android, my personal favorite is Calls Blacklist by Vlad Lee and Truecaller as both of these app are easy to use, allows me to save the blacklist, have caller ID functionality, provides scheduling, lightweight and does not consume much resources.
Which app did you install on your Android phone to block incoming calls? I would love to hear your experience in the comments section below. 🙂
I have no anything useful yet. I want to make sure they can’t leave a voicemail. I want to simply hang up.
Hi @disqus_wF5r7EU6r8:disqus, if you simply want to hang up then any app should work for you. If you want my suggestion then download Call Blacklist by Vlad Lee. That’s what I use on my phone too.
I hope you find this useful 🙂
Hey @disqus_wF5r7EU6r8:disqus, a little heads-up. I have looked into your problem further and found an app called “Extreme Call Blocker” available here. It supports automatic pick-up and hangup feature that prevents the blocked caller from leaving a voicemail.
Maybe this is something you are looking for?
Hi @mohammadfarzanhussain:disqus I was Extreme Call Blocker’s biggest fan but it is no longer supported by the developer. It was the one app which had the ability to answer a call and disconnect it so that unwanted callers couldn’t leave voicemail. It was very easy to tweak ECB to work in conjunction with Truecaller and the stock phone app that came with my Samsung Galaxy S7. I am now receiving about 30 unwanted calls per day and I am no longer able to keep blocked callers from leaving me voicemail. I don’t want robocallers, bill collectors or former acquaintances to have the capability of getting inside my voice mailbox but apparently the ability to disconnect blocked calls stopped with subsequent Android system upgrades (I’m on Nougat now). Would you kindly let me know if you should hear any news of a redesigned app that keeps callers out of voicemail on Nougat or Oreo? Many thanks!
Hi @Natalie McDonald. Thanks for stopping by and sharing your query with us. You are right about Extreme Call Blocker being outdated. It was last updated during the end of May last year. It hurts when these one-of-a-kind Android apps with exclusive features are left outdated.
Anyways, I did some in-depth research on call blocking apps and tried some newly updated apps that offer what you are looking for i.e. blocking of calls by automatic pick-up and hang-up functionality. I found 2 apps but only first one will work on Nougat:
1. Should I Answer? by Mister Group s.r.o — I have tried this one. The app’s description page does not mention about blocked calls pickup and hangup feature, however, the functionality has been implemented but currently in a testing phase.
And please note that there is a possibility that it may not work on all Android phones. I have read somewhere that Samsung, on their new phones, has disabled the functionality required to make this feature work. But you can give it a try. The app is free.
2. Mr. Number by Hiya — This app has a hang-up functionality but it won’t work on Android 5.0 or later, as already mentioned in the description area. So don’t waste your time on trying this app. I tried but the option isn’t even visible in the app.
Go ahead and try the app “Should I Answer?” and then let me know if it helped you in keeping blocked callers from leaving a voicemail. 🙂
Hi Mohammad! I also spent several hours researching this after I left my original post and came to the same conclusion that Should I Answer was the best app to try. I had to do a lot of tweaking and rebooting on the first day and still an unwanted voicemail got through. The app’s settings menu also did not even offer me the “pick and hang” option it advertised. However, by the second day no voicemail messages were received from the one unwanted number that finally manages to get through after several attempts per day. But that was Sunday so maybe the call center agents weren’t trying as hard. Now it’s Monday and that will be the real test as I get about 30 unwanted calls on weekdays, more than weekends. I want to thank you for your prompt and courteous thorough response — let’s hope this works!
You are welcome, Natalie! Good to hear that you already found out about this great call blocking app on your own. I am glad you managed to set it up on your phone. The interface is a bit confusing as it has a lot of different options but you just need to set it once and then it will take care of your call blocking needs.
As far as telemarketers, spam calls, and robocalls are concerned, the blocking app has a crowd-sourced database of numbers where it stores all the reported numbers and automatically blocks them so you won’t need to add them manually. In case any number slips through and reach your voicemail then you can leave a rating for it to make sure it can’t reach you again.
Moreover, the app receives frequent updates. This means someone is there to listen and you can either leave a review or directly reach the developer if something does not work.
I hope this app continues to help you in blocking unwanted calls and makes your life easier 🙂
Another worthy consideration is Should I Answer? Not sure if they have it for Apple, but that’s what I’ve used for a while on Android.
Thanks a lot for your suggestion! We will give that app a try and add it to our list if we find it useful in any way. 🙂
I need a blocker that would not only reject the unwanted calls, but also not notify me of them – because frankly, I don’t need the notification, I don’t want to know the call happened at all. I get mostly spoofed numbers, so replying on a database of known numbers isn’t going to help. I’m desperate enough to want to block all calls except contacts, but this will put a big cramp in my job search.
Sure, tell us. We will be happy to add that to our list, if it is good enough.
@KittyDelAmour:disqus seems like you are looking for an app with aggressive call blocking abilities. I will suggest you to try Call Blocker by NetQin available here (already mentioned above in #03).
It has a ‘custom blocking mode’ option that allows you to accept calls from your contacts and whitelist only. Rest of the calls will be automatically blocked. And you can even disable the block notifications.
Give it a try and let us know what you think..
That app sucks. Read the reviews on it. The ads are worse than the spam calls.
I used Safest Call Blocker which worked GREAT but it messed up my ringtone – that went to silent and I had to do a factory reset. So I am on the lookout for a simple app that will block any call that is not in my contact list – automatically to VM. What would you suggest?
I have an S6, Verizon, Android 7.0
That shouldn’t have happened. Call Blockers are designed to block calls only and should never interfere with ringtone. Anyways, the #1 app on the list i.e. Call Blacklist by Vlad Lee should be your best bet. It has an option called “Block Unknown Numbers” that allows you to block all numbers except contacts. Moreover, all the blocked numbers should be automatically forwarded to VoiceMail.
Give it a try and let me know how it worked for you 🙂
Why would anyone want spam calls going to voicemail? I don’t want the calls and don’t want them leaving messages that I have to delete.
if you are doing a project that involves contractors their subs will not be in your contact list, so better to go to voicemail.
I don’t want to block calls from unknown callers because it’s my business phone. But I want to be able to add calls to a blacklist or reject if I want to. Which is best for this? Or, do all allow a blacklist but let calls show up if you wish to connect?
Hi @TuckerdogNC:disqus, the majority of apps mentioned in this list have the exact same feature that you are looking for. Most will let you manually add numbers to the blacklist/calls reject list. Go for whichever app that suits your calls blocking style. If you want my suggestion then try “Calls Blacklist by Vlad Lee”. It is #1 on this list. 🙂
Thanks for the review. I have tried the #3 pick and now am trying an app called nights keeper but both give me the same problems. When I am talking on my phone and a second call comes in that is not in my contacts, I am disconnected from the call I am in and the offending call is also blocked. The other issue I have is, when my phone is connected to my car stereo via Bluetooth and a blocked call comes in my music will temporarily stop until the blocking software hangs up on the call. I really want an app that will give me the Apple iOS do not disturb style, if the number is not in the contacts it never makes to the phone, it goes directly to voicemail. Any suggestions. Thanks
Hi @markgoodine:disqus, thanks for stopping by! The call blocker app mentioned in #3 is a great choice for blocking all the calls that are not in your contacts. And the issue you mentioned should not happen. I have used call blocker on my phone and in case I receive any unwanted call that needs to be blocked, the app automatically puts the current call on hold, blocks the offending call, and then resumes the call.
To avoid unwanted music interruptions when your phone is connected via Bluetooth, you need to disable the call block notifications in the app settings.
I hope this helps. 🙂
I’d like a call-blocker that allows to me block all calls not on my contact list, EXCEPT from a specific area code. I’ve already tried #1 and #3 on your list and I don’t see that feature. Any recommendations?
Hi @erinmcdade:disqus, I will recommend you to try “Blacklist Plus by Vlad Lee”. It’s #7 on the list above. It is a powerful calls blocker app for Android. The app allows you to create a custom Whitelist where you can add specific area code from where you want to receive calls. And then you can set the calls block mode to “All except whitelist”.
I hope this helps you out in accepting calls from certain areas only. Give it a try and let me know how it goes. 🙂
Hi Mohammed. I need a call blocker with whitelist and also i want silent ring feauture when rejecting calls. Caller must hear endless calls. I want to see who called me in a seperate log. In my family time i used whitelist and at work time i check who called me. I want rejected calls just hear endless ring. Thank you:)
Hi, give a try to app #3 in the list above. The app name is “Call Blocker Free by NQ Mobile Security”. Once installed, go to Settings and there you will find “How to block calls” option. Tap on it and you will find 3 options to block calls:
1. Hang up,
2. Hang up and send a text,
3. Mute without hanging up.
You need to select the third option, which will silent the ring for all the blacklisted calls and the caller will continue to hear the ring.
Moreover, you will also have a separate log for all the blocked calls.
If you have any other question then please feel free to ask. 🙂
I used Call Control Call Blocker for years and absolutely loved it until 2017 when I discovered that half the features I enjoyed were now only available to this who ‘purchased’ the upgrade. So, I went looking and found ‘Shoyld I Answer which at least gets the basic. I do miss not even having to hear the ring of bad calls. That’s now under ‘premium’ in CCCB. I am like others-I don’t want to be bothered by the ring and I don’t want them in my answering center. How do you compare SIAP to your #1 pick, Calls Blacklist by Vlad Lee? Thanks for your great help!
Hello @ginhunt:disqus, I have already suggested a call blocker app to Kerem Aydin in the comments below. The app name is “Call Blocker Free by NQ Mobile Security”. It’s #3 in the list above. This is one of the best call blocker apps and provides a feature that will silent all the blocked calls while that blacklisted caller will continue to hear the ring. The best thing is it’s completely free. 😉
I tried Should I Answer, but I lost the ability to add contacts to my contact list.
Try using any other app from this list.
@speedlever:disqus I hope you are aware that Should I Answer is hard to configure for an Android user who is looking for a simple app to block unwanted calls. I will recommend you to try the app mentioned in #1 i.e. Calls Blacklist. If you need any further help then feel free to let us know.
Thanks. I already snagged Mr. Number and am trying that now. I found SIA rather intrusive as it always wanted feedback about a call and was confusing to use on my Android phone.
If Mr. Number doesn’t work out for me, I’ll try Calls Blacklist. I was hoping to find an app that worked on iOS as well as Android since I live in a mixed family. 3 iPhones and my lone Android. 😉 I knew that SIA has both Android and iOS apps, so was hoping that would work for me.
Good to hear that, buddy! I hope Mr. Number work for you. A few of our readers found Mr. Number easy to configure 🙂
Remember, what works on iOS may not work well on Android as both operating systems are very much different from each other.
Understood. OTOH, we’ve had very good luck with Our Groceries which runs on both iOS and Android. So sometimes it works.
Give it a try after some time. It should work.
Our Groceries is a list type app and is from a completely different category that’s why it works on both. All it needs is a proper synchronization. Whereas, Call Blocking apps require some extra permissions as it is directly interfering with your phone’s calling functionality.
OK thanks!
I used Calls Blacklist for a while because I needed to blacklist the first 6 digits of my own phone number due to spoofing by scammers, while allowing my wife to still get through. It worked well for a while, then stopped blocking anything a few months ago. Trying one of the others now.
Let us know if something worked for you.
Any call blockers that don’t require access to your contact list?
#05 – CALL BLOCKER Is full of ridiculous. People have wrote in the comments on the play store, no annoying ads, but that’s a lie
Thanks for sharing your review about the call blocker by AndroidRock. And if you are not happy with the app then you are free to try other Android call blocker apps we have mentioned in the list.This is a Civilized Place for Public Discussion
Please treat this discussion forum with the same respect you would a public park. We, too, are a shared community resource — a place to share skills, knowledge and interests through ongoing conversation.
These are not hard and fast rules, merely aids to the human judgment of our community. Use these guidelines to keep this a clean, well-lighted place for civilized public discourse.
Improve the Discussion
Help us make this a great place for discussion by always working to improve the discussion in some way, however small. If you are not sure your post adds to the conversation, think over what you want to say and try again later.
The topics discussed here matter to us, and we want you to act as if they matter to you, too. Be respectful of the topics and the people discussing them, even if you disagree with some of what is being said.
One way to improve the discussion is by discovering ones that are already happening. Please spend some time browsing the topics here before replying or starting your own, and you’ll have a better chance of meeting others who share your interests.
Be Agreeable, Even When You Disagree
You may wish to respond to something by disagreeing with it. That’s fine. But, remember to criticize ideas, not people. Please avoid:
- Name-calling.
- Ad hominem attacks.
- Responding to a post’s tone instead of its actual content.
- Knee-jerk contradiction.
Instead, provide reasoned counter-arguments that improve the conversation.
Your Participation Counts
The conversations we have here set the tone for everyone. Help us influence the future of this community by choosing to engage in discussions that make this forum an interesting place to be — and avoiding those that do not.
Discourse provides tools that enable the community to collectively identify the best (and worst) contributions: favorites, bookmarks, likes, flags, replies, edits, and so forth. Use these tools to improve your own experience, and everyone else’s, too.
Let’s try to leave our park better than we found it.
If You See a Problem, Flag It
Moderators have special authority; they are responsible for this forum. But so are you. With your help, moderators can be community facilitators, not just janitors or police.
When you see bad behavior, don’t reply. It encourages the bad behavior by acknowledging it, consumes your energy, and wastes everyone’s time. Just flag it. If enough flags accrue, action will be taken, either automatically or by moderator intervention.
In order to maintain our community, moderators reserve the right to remove any content and any user account for any reason at any time. Moderators do not preview new posts in any way; the moderators and site operators take no responsibility for any content posted by the community.
Always Be Civil
Nothing sabotages a healthy conversation like rudeness:
- Be civil. Don’t post anything that a reasonable person would consider offensive, abusive, or hate speech.
- Keep it clean. Don’t post anything obscene or sexually explicit.
- Respect each other. Don’t harass or grief anyone, impersonate people, or expose their private information.
- Respect our forum. Don’t post spam or otherwise vandalize the forum.
These are not concrete terms with precise definitions — avoid even the appearance of any of these things. If you’re unsure, ask yourself how you would feel if your post was featured on the front page of the New York Times.
This is a public forum, and search engines index these discussions. Keep the language, links, and images safe for family and friends.
Keep It Tidy
Make the effort to put things in the right place, so that we can spend more time discussing and less cleaning up. So:
- Don’t start a topic in the wrong category.
- Don’t cross-post the same thing in multiple topics.
- Don’t post no-content replies.
- Don’t divert a topic by changing it midstream.
- Don’t sign your posts — every post has your profile information attached to it.
Rather than posting “+1” or “Agreed”, use the Like button. Rather than taking an existing topic in a radically different direction, use Reply as a Linked Topic.
Post Only Your Own Stuff
You may not post anything digital that belongs to someone else without permission. You may not post descriptions of, links to, or methods for stealing someone’s intellectual property (software, video, audio, images), or for breaking any other law.
Powered by You
This site is operated by your friendly local staff and you, the community. If you have any further questions about how things should work here, open a new topic in the site feedback category and let’s discuss! If there’s a critical or urgent issue that can’t be handled by a meta topic or flag, contact us via the staff page.
Terms of Service
Yes, legalese is boring, but we must protect ourselves – and by extension, you and your data – against unfriendly folks. We have a Terms of Service describing your (and our) behavior and rights related to content, privacy, and laws. To use this service, you must agree to abide by our TOS.Are you searching for a Subway Surfers mod and hack APK to get unlimited coins and keys? Your search is over; here is the working hacked and modded APK for the latest version of Subway Surfers Copenhagen that gives you unlimited keys and unlimited coins.
Subway Surfers is an arcade-style endless running game developed by Kiloo where you need to sprint as fast as you can while dodging the oncoming trains and obstacles. Basically, you are running away from the grumpy inspector and his dog in an attempt to escape from them. Apart from avoiding hindrances, you can use special items, powerups, and boosters like rescue keys, coins magnet, hoverboards, headstarts, scoreboosters, super jump, super snickers. All of these will help you run farther and achieve higher scores.
But all of those special items, powerups, coins, and keys are limited and you have only two possible ways to get them:
You earn them by playing for endless hours, or
You purchase them via in-app purchases by spending real money.
To help you out, we are giving you a Subway Surfers mod and hack APK, which allows you to get each one of those items for free. Yes, absolutely free. You don’t need to spend a single penny.
What Is Modified And Hacked In Subway Surfers?
As already mentioned in the beginning of this post, the Subway Surfers mod and hack version is perfect for those who are looking for a quick way to beat the high scores and best scores of their friends without spending any real money to purchase score booster, coins, and rescue keys.
Here’s a list of items and powerups you will be able to get for free after installing the Subway Surfers Mod and Hack APK:
Unlimited Coins – There is absolutely no limitation on a number of You can use it to purchase as many score boosters, hoverboards, mystery boxes, headstarts as you want.
Inexhaustible Rescue Keys – Gives you unlimited Rescue Keys. It is important and comes handy in case you are caught by the grumpy inspector, you can then simply use keys to continue from where you were caught.
Unlimited Mystery Box – As you get unlimited coins, you can use those to purchase as many Mystery Boxes as you want and win free rare and grand prizes like headstarters, boards, Fresh’s Stereo, Spike’s Guitar, Tricky’s Hat, trophies, score booster without waiting.
Infinite Hoverboards – Hoverboards protects you from crashing for over 30 seconds and can be activated anytime by double tapping. You need to purchase it using coins, but the hacked version gives you unlimited hoverboards.
Never-ending Headstart – The never-ending headstart will help you skip ahead from the very beginning of your run as well as increases your running speed to the maximum.
Endless Score Booster – You will get an endless amount of Score Booster that you can use to multiply your score by 5, 6, or 7 for the duration of one run.
Boosted Coins Magnet – Coins magnet will help you collect coins from all three tracks, but the boost will make it last much longer.
Skip Any Mission – With no limitation on the amount of coins you have in your account, you can use it to skip any mission you want within a matter of seconds.
Increase Powerup Duration – You can quickly increase the powerup duration of Spray Can Jetpack, Super Sneakers, Coin Magnet, and 2x Coins Multiplier by over 6 times.
Endless Score Multiplier – Usually you need to collect a Score Multiplier powerup while running, but with the mod, you will get an endless score multiplier.
Super Jump – Unlimited Super Jumps and Super Snickers that will help you with easily jumping over the trains.
Unlocks All Characters – Most of the in-game characters need to be purchased or unlocked by clearing missions and opening mystery boxes but the mod version automatically unlocks each one of them for you.
Unlocks All Boards – In the original game, you need to clear the missions and open mystery box to unlock boards. But with this modified version, all the boards are unlocked from the beginning including their special power.
Reactivate Hoverboards Without Waiting – The reactivation time for the hoverboards is reduced to zero seconds so you can activate it whenever you want.
How The Subway Surfers Mod And Hack APK Works?
The working of the Subway Surfers mod and hack APK is very simple. All you really need to do is download the modified and hacked APK version from the link below and install it on your Android device. If the original version of Subway Surfers is already installed on your phone, then installing the modified version will simply overwrite the current version of the game, without altering your current high score.
That is all you really need to do in order to hack and modify Subway Surfers on Android. No root is required. 😀
Demo Gameplay Video Of Subway Surfers Copenhagen
Here’s a gameplay demo video of the latest Subway Surfers Copenhagen version released to celebrate the fifth anniversary of this popular and endless running game:
Download Subway Surfers Mod And Hack APK
You can download the latest and updated Subway Surfers mod and hack APK for your Android devices from the link given below:I have recently started using Spotify and installed the Spotify premium APK from your website but after using it for around a week and creating my personalized list of music favorites, now whenever I start Spotify I see an error message that says, “Enjoying your trip? To listen abroad for more than 14 days, tell us where you are at spotify.com.”
I have even tried changing the country using Spotify website but I am still unable to login to my account using their Android app.
Is there any trick or method that would help me bypass this Spotify country restriction? I don’t want to create another account as I have already spent a lot of my precious time on creating playlist of my personal favorite music. Please help. Any tip would be highly appreciated.Lost your password?
← Back to BestForAndroidTrouble of getting up in the morning? Don’t worry. Whether you’re looking to hit the snooze button or need a jolt of energy, Spotify will now offer the perfect soundtrack to start your day. You can now easily wake up to a playlist of your favorite songs served up by Spotify instead of the standard alarm clock tones.
Set Spotify as Alarm on Android with SpotOn
Setting an alarm using Spotify has been made easier with various apps that are currently available. One such app is SpotOn , which works best on Android devices. Besides having a simple interface, SpotOn is slowly gaining rise among Android users. These steps are all you need to Spotify as Android alarm.
Step 1. Download and install the SpotOn app on your Android phone.
Step 2. Sign in to your Premium Spotify account.
Step 3. Tap on ‘WAKE’ tab in order to create a new alarm.
Step 4. While at the account, you need to set the particular time that you need your alarm to produce sound.
Step 5. Tap on the ‘TAP TO SELECT MUSIC’ button. Remember you are free to choose a playlist or album.
There are also some other effects that you can incorporate as you use Spotify songs as alarm. These include adding a fade in effect, shuffling your songs or letting the alarm vibrate as well.
Set Spotify as Alarm with Tunelf
Compared with the solutions for Spotify alarm Android or Spotify alarm iPhone, it is easier to use Spotify as alarm iPhone or Android using a third-party tool like Tunelf Spotify Music Converter. With its help, you can download and convert Spotify music to plain audio formats so you can directly select Spotify music as an alarm ringtone.
Spotify is a digital music service that can give you access to millions of songs. You can download offline Spotify music for listening with a premium account when you are without an Internet connection. However, all music from Spotify is streaming content only available on Spotify. But Tunelf Spotify Music Converter can let you save Spotify music to MP3 so as to use Spotify as an alarm iPhone or Android.Site Feedback - Best Android Forum - Get Solutions & Fixes to Android Problems10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android
Writing a thesis involves a great deal of time, concentration, and research. Thirty years ago, working on a thesis meant…Disclaimer: This is just a copy of the original app to make it easier for people who can't download directly via Google PlayStore. We do not own this app or brand and are not related in any way. All rights are reserved by original owners.
Want to play the most trending game right now? Download this game called Fortnite and go against 99 more players in a single map and try to be the last man standing.
About Fortnite APK
Fortnite is an online video game developed by Epic Games. It was introduced in 2017, and since then it has gained a lot of popularity in the gaming community among all the gamers from platforms including PC, PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, IOS, and Android.
The people who wanted to enjoy playing this game on their phones were waiting for epic games to launch this game for Android and they finally did. The people who couldn’t afford an expensive PC can now enjoy Fortnite on their Android smartphones. They have to check if their Android phones are compatible for downloading Fortnite and download the game.
It is a PVP Player-Vs-Player based game consisting of two different game modes namely, save the world and Battle Royale.
Fortnite: Save the world, is a cooperative shooter-survival game for up to 4 players as a squad to fight zombies like husks and protect their objects from them. You and your three other friends will be the only one in the whole world, as all other 98% of the population of the world disappeared after a storm appeared across the earth.
You’ll have to complete all the missions and tasks. In reward, you’ll get some in-game items which include, hero characters, survivors, weapons, and traps. All of these things can also be leveled up to get their attributes enhanced after you gain more experience in the game.
Fortnite: Battle Royale, is a free-to-play battle royale where up to 100 players land into the map as solo, duo or squads, with only their pickaxes, from a battle bus that starts from one end of the map and stops at another end of the map giving you time to land at your desired location.
You can tap on the map and add a pointer to be sure that you land at your exact location. When you want to jump from the battle bus, you’ll have to tap the jump button, and then you can glide from the sky to your desired location and land on the ground. You’ll have to look through chests and floor loot for guns, ammo, and shields while looking out for enemies near you.
You can even build your base or small huts to protect yourself from enemies. But to do that, you’ll have to farm materials with your pickaxe. There are three kinds of materials that you can carry: wood, brick, and metal which you can get by breaking trees, brick structures, and cars or buses respectively.
All of these materials have their advantages and disadvantages. A wooden structure is the quickest to complete, but it is the weakest from all of them. The brick structure takes a bit more time to complete, but it is stronger than the wooden structure and takes more hits to break while the metal structure takes the longest to complete but is the strongest from all of them and requires much more hits to break.
By going into build mode, you can build walls, ramps, floors, pyramids and place traps. You can also edit these builds by tapping the edit button, and you can edit your walls with a window or a door or both. Edit your ramp to be a single full-size ramp, one-sided stairs or even swirly stairs. You can change the directions of the ramps as well.
After you’ve gathered all of your materials and weapons or even when you are halfway through, you might encounter an enemy. So if he is on a building or a high place, you can build some stairs to that person, and if he is close to you, you can use your shotgun to shoot him.
There are also different game modes in which you can play. These modes include solo, duo, squad, playground and some more different modes that change after every short period.
As the match progresses, there are air-drops that land at different places of the map which give you some shields and an epic or a legendary weapon. There are also some llamas that have been added to the game a while ago. There are only three llamas in a single match, placed at different locations of the map in different matches of the game, and they give you 600 materials (200 materials of every category), some damage traps, shields, and some grenades.
Note: llamas do not give you weapons.
As time goes by, there is a storm that starts coming toward the middle of the map, shown by a pink or red colored circle and it is going to stop at the white outline. Any player left inside the storm is going to take health storm damage and is going to die if he stays there for much longer. The storm damage also increases as the game passes by. Starting from 1 ticker (1 health damage per second) to a 10 ticker.
The storm forces the players to go towards the center and as a result, encouraging more player encounter.
Coming back to the main menu, you can also buy V-Bucks from the in-game store. V-Bucks are a kind of in-game currency for buying skins, emotes, pickaxes and even gliders. The in-game shop is also updated every 24 hours with new things added in every day.
You can also buy a Battle Pass using V-Bucks, which allows you to get some skins and stuff at the start of the season and also get more stuff as you play and complete more and more challenges and go up tears.
The game is also updated every week, and new stuff gets added into the game to make it more interesting. There are also seasons that get updated after every two or three months, and they bring some more new things into the game as well.
Epic games have also told us that they are going to allow some devices to be connected with your Android smartphone to make playing Fortnite easier, like keyboard, mouse or even Xbox or PS4 controller.
It is the most trending game in the world right now which is available for Android smartphones. Download the game with the link given below, get in and try to get that Victory Royale.
Features of Fortnite APK
Here are some of the features of Fortnite APK:
- Free-to-play – Fortnite is free to play for all platforms including Android.
- Lots of challenges and modes – There are a lot of things that get added to the game almost every week including game modes.
- In-game Purchases – You can buy in-game currencies using which you can buy different skins, emotes and even gliders which gets updated almost every day.
- In-game chat – you can use the in-game chat to talk to your friends or your teammates.
This is the link for the Fortnite installer APK and it will not provide the actual game. This installer is going to download Fortnite on your Android phone if its compatible.My Rog phone 3 (Firmware Version: 17.0823.2007.58) isn’t connecting to wifi automatically for a few days. I have to connect it manually and once connect it shows as no internet. All the other connected devices have good net connectivity and no any issueOk so I’m looking for a new phone, but I can’t decide which one to get. Any suggestions?
Well, there are many phones out there but it depends on what specs you are looking for. Here I can suggest some phone,
It has an awesome camera, huge screen, 4Gb RAM and a new Android OS. But it has some drawbacks like the touch ID is located in an unusual place and high price but it is worth it.
This is also one great phone with 6-inch screen, 6GB RAM, and a dual camera setup (20+12). If you’re looking for a decent phone with a great camera this is the one to go for.
Any other suggestion, I want a small phone but it should be powerful as well?
Look at this phone, just as you asked for, small and powerful beast:
Pixel 2:
This is a phone for all the small handed Android users as it is a small phone with great features. 4GB RAM, 5-inch screen and a beast of a camera, it is the first phone to have portrait mode on selfie as well as back camera without 2 cameras as only phones with 2 cameras can give this much depth of field and it works really good.
I like the S8 but I want my phone to be more powerful. I don’t have any problem with big phones.
I think this phone is the perfect solution for your needs, check it out:
Samsung Galaxy Note 8:
If you’re looking for a phone to be more productive, this is the one to go for. With 6GB RAM, 6.3-inch screen, Android 7.1 and 12 mp camera. This can do anything that you can ever imagine.
I am a content creator and I need a phone with an awesome camera and an awesome camera app to work with it. If it gives a wide option on video recorder then I’ll be more than happy.
Yea sure man, this is the best phone to go for as you can control shutter speed, focus manually, and it also gives focus peeking during video recording so you should check this out:
LG V30:
This is also one of the greatest phone that you can get with features like, Dual camera (16+13), 4GB RAM, 6-inch screen and an awesome camera app.
Any phones for ones who have a low budget. I am looking for a budget phone.
Wait no more and get this phone ASAP. It is the cheapest (in price) and best in every aspect.
OnePlus 5T:
If you’re looking for a great phone with every feature that you can imagine with a low budget, this is the phone that you should go for. With 8Gb RAM, 6-inch screen, dual camera setup (16+20), and one of the fastest face unlock and fingerprint reader (Faster than ever).
Thanks people for helping…
RedMi Note6 Pro is the better feature phone with low price…
If someone is looking for a flagship smartphone of the past years for adequate money in 2020, then I recommend looking towards the Pixel 2 XL or Samsung Galaxy S8+. The first runs on a Snapdragon 835 processor, and the second – Exynos 8895 (international model). The Galaxy will be worse in terms of performance. In some benchmarks, the difference is more than 50%.
Here are the tests from nanoreview
Both processors are built using 10-nanometer technology, but the Snapdragon 835 has a better instruction set architecture. In addition, Pixel runs on a newer version of the operating system.Do you want to unleash the true potential of your Android device and want to perform hacking? Here I have handpicked some of the best hacking apps and tools for Android so you can transform your Android device into a powerful hacking device and experiment with different hacking and attacking stuff.
Believe it or not, our smartphones have now become smart, capable, and powerful enough that now we don’t even need access to our computer systems to perform various hacking tasks like ethical hacking, network attacks, find possible exploits, and numerous security checkups, thanks to the open source Android operating system that is based on the Linux kernel.
Anyways, the hacking tools and apps mentioned in the list below will help you execute various types of hacking. Some of the apps included in the list may require you have a root access on your Android device as well as some extra modules like Xposed or BusyBox to function properly. Though most of the apps should work flawlessly without root.
Okay so without any further ado, here are the 29 best hacking tools and apps for Android devices that will let you perform a lot of hacking, specially the type of hacking you would have never thought is possible on Android before. Continue reading to find out… 😀
1 – WiFi Password (Root)
Did you ever want to find out what the password of the WiFi network that has already been saved on your Android device is? If your answer is yes, then this app is designed for you!
Once installed and given the root access via SuperSU, the app will let you see the password of all the networks that has been saved on your device. That’s the reason why this WiFi Password app is the most interesting and I believe it should have been integrated into the Android system by default to help the users.
Please note that this is NOT a WiFi password cracker app.
- Simple yet effective.
- Requires root access.
- Contain ads.
2 – Fing – Network Tools
Fing is a network management toolkit that enables you to take complete control over your WiFi network and help you in the assessment of your network’s security, setting up your personal network, troubleshooting link problem, and detect intruders all from the comfort of your Android device.
The app includes some tools, and some of them are subnet scanner, port scanning, ability to connect to SSH or FTP ports, advanced exploration of NetBIOS and UPNP.
- Frequently updated.
- Does not require root.
- Contain ads.
- Lacks user manual.
3 – Hackode Penetration Tester
Hackode is a penetration tester app specifically designed for cyber security experts, ethical hackers and network administrators. If you are one of those and looking for some administrative tools, then this app is for you.
The app includes tools that will let you perform Network investigation, Whois, pinging, MX records lookup, finding exploits within your network.
- Does not require root.
- Poorly designed user interface.
- No help or FAQ section.
- No update since a long time.
4 – Nmap – Network Mapper
Network Mapper, which is also known as Nmap, is an open source app that is designed to help you with the downloading, installation, and proper usage of Nmap on your Android device. The app supports various Android architectures including x86 and ARM.
For those of you who don’t know, Nmap is a tool designed for networkers and will help in discovering protocols, services, open ports and possible vulnerabilities within the network.
- Open source.
- Simple and effective.
- Lack of update.
5 – Nipper – Toolkit Web Scan
Nipper is a toolkit specially designed to check the security of the websites based on the popular web CMS (Content Management System) including Joomla, Blogger, WordPress, Drupal and several other.
The app consists of over fifteen modules that will help you perform various scans to gather all the information and possible exploits within the CMS so that you can strengthen your website’s security.
- Active support and development.
- Not properly translated to the English language.
- The app requires some polishing.
6 – X Privacy Installer
Are you worried about the privacy of your data being accessed by apps? Did you ever want to gain complete control over the access required by the apps installed on your Android device?
If yes, then X Privacy Installer will let you install XPrivacy on your Android device to give you complete control over the apps on your device and prevent them from leaking or even accessing privacy sensitive data stored on your Android device.
What XPrivacy does is that it will provide no data or fake data to the apps you have added to the restricted list. For example, if the restricted app tries to access your location then the app will provide it with fake coordinates.
- Very powerful app.
- Ads free.
- Requires root access.
- Requires Xposed framework to work properly.
- Might be tough to setup for a beginner.
7 – cSploit – Network Analysis & Penetration Suite
cSploit, designed and developed by tux-mind, is one of the most advanced forms of IT security toolkit available for the Android devices. The app is powerful enough to help you find vulnerabilities, compute local hosts, perform a security assessment on your network, find all the possible exploits and then use those exploits to gain access to the target device.
The tool allows you to do real-time traffic manipulation and network mapping which will even let you perform man-in-the-middle attack on the target and do password sniffing. The app comes preloaded with Metasploit framework RPC daemon.
- Active development.
- Open source.
- Requires root access.
- Requires full version of BusyBox.
You can download cSploit for Android from here.
8 – aNmap Network Scanner
aNmap (Android Network Mapper) is a network scanner app and is one of the most extraordinarily useful toolkits for network administrators and hackers trying to perform hacking right from their Android device.
The goal of this app is to let you scan the whole system and create a map of all the devices that are connected to the network. The app is designed to send and receive special packets to each IP address within the network and then show you a map based on the responses.
- Useful for network managers.
- Would help in discovering a list of devices connected to the network.
- Requires root access.
- Requires BusyBox.
You can download aNmap Network Scanner for Android from here.
9 – zANTI Mobile Penetration & Hacker Toolkit
zANTI is a Mobile based PenTesting toolkit for Android devices. The app has been developed by Zimperium and is based on their award-winning mobile penetration testing framework and known as one of the best Android hacking apps.
The app is not only useful for hackers but can be used by the network administrators to understand better and manage their network as well as the connected devices and computers. zANTI is capable enough to automatically create a network map and reveal all the possible vulnerabilities of the connected devices.
- Powerful toolkit for hackers with a lot of features.
- Compatible with Android 2.2 and above.
- Compatible with ARM-based devices only.
- Requires root access.
You can download zANTI Toolkit for your Android phone and tablet devices from here.
10 – MoboClean
Now you can gain more control over the apps installed on your Android device with MoboClean without even rooting your smartphone or tablet. It will let you create a cleaned version of any app and will allow you to disable annoying features like background running, auto-start on the boot, and privacy access.
Gaining control over these aspects of the apps will allow you to boost your smartphone’s performance, save battery, and minimalize load on the CPU while making your Android device work more efficiently.
- Designed for non-rooted Android devices.
- Fully compatible with Android 4.0 and above.
- Ads free.
- Would not be able to clean system apps.
- Apps cleaned using MoboClean might be recognized as ‘unsafe’ or ‘pirated’ by security software.
MoboClean for Android is available for download from here.
11 – AndroidRAT – Android Hacking Apps
AndroidRAT, which actually stands for Android Remote Administration Tool, is a very powerful remote administration tool designed to hack Android devices. It let the attacker gain remote access to the target phone or tablet device to remotely control it and retrieve data or information. It’s a great hacking apps.
AndroRAT is actually developed in Java environment and comprises of two applications i.e. client side and server side. The client-side app needs to be installed on the Android device, which will collect and forward information. And the server side app will be installed on a computer, which will send a request to the client app and receive all the forwarded information.
The AndroRAT Android client app can be attached with any app apk using a binder so that it can be mischievously installed on a target device. Once installed, the AndroidRAT client app will automatically run as a service during the boot without any user interaction. You can also configure how the connection to the server can be triggered i.e. via SMS or call.
The server app can be installed on various platforms including Windows, Linux, and Mac. It has a clean and easy to understand GUI where you can see a list of all the connected Android clients. The list is dynamically updated whenever a new client connects or disconnects. Also, there’s a log panel where you can find a log of all the connections.
You can interact with the client in numerous ways and request for different information including call logs, messages, contact details, get current geolocation, capture a picture from front or back camera, open any URL of your choice in the default browser, vibrate the phone/tablet, sent SMS, make a phone call, stream sound from the microphone, check browser history.
You can download AndroRAT Android apk and client app from here.
12 – Shark for Root
For a security expert or a network hacker, Shark for Root will be one of the best Android hacking apps that let you sniff WiFi, 3G, and tethered Internet traffic in the simplest way possible. The app can capture all the packets that are being transmitted or received over a network.
If you have ever used AndroShark or WireShark app then you must be able to understand how Shark for Root actually works. This is an updated and redesigned version of the same app. Anyways, I am explaining a bit about the working of this app for those who are hearing about it for the first time, the app is based on tcpdump so you can basically use all the tcpdump commands to capture packets.
The developer of Shark for Root also developed an app named SharkReader that gives you the possibility to open captured .pcap files and see all the sniffed packets directly on your Android device.
You can download Shark for Root from here.
13 – DroidBox
DroidBox is a unique app that is designed with an aim to let you dynamically analyze the Android apps for the existence of any malicious code or hacking element that might leak your sensitive data.
In case you don’t know, there are two known methods for Android app analysis i.e. static and dynamic. In the static method, you need to disassemble and decompile the apk file and then perform the app-manifest analysis. While on the other hand, the dynamic method launches the app in a separate environment and then performs a real-time analysis of the app for malicious code.
Once the Android app has been successfully analyzed by DroidBox, it will show you the results in graphical as well as text format. You will then be able to observe the behavior of the app. All the details included in the result are as follows:
- Data of all the outgoing and incoming network packets,
- All the read and write operations being performed by the app,
- List of all the sent SMS and phone calls,
- Report of any sign of information leak through network or SMS,
- List of broadcast receivers,
- Cryptography operations performed using Android API.
DroidBox for Android is available for download from the official GitHub repository here.
14 – APKInspector
APKInspector is an open source project that has a capability to reverse engineer and analyze Android apps. Similar to DroidBox, this app also shows the results and detailed report of the analyzed app in an easy to read GUI interface, which makes it easier for the reader/analyzer to visualize the structure of the app and find out if the app is safe or not.
APKInspector is a great tool for those who are interested in inspecting apps for the presence of any forensic malware that might leak important user data to the third party. All the available options include:
- List of permissions being requested by the app,
- Ability to search/filter strings, classes, and methods,
- Static instrumentation,
- Combine permission analysis.
Moreover, you can even gain access to detailed insights of the malicious app including smali, dalvik, java, option to call graph.
You can download APKInspector from here.
15 – SSHDroid
It is an SSH server implementation app for Android that enables you to directly connect to your Android device from a PC. Once connected, you can then access/edit files through software like SFTP, Cyberduck, WinSCP as well as execute various commands like adb shell and terminal.
SSHDroid is a tiny little app and upgrading it to the SSHDroid pro version will unlock a variety of new features including:
- Removes all advertisements,
- Whitelisting WiFi autostart,
- Extended controls over notifications,
- Authentication for the shared key (can be used with WinSCP/Putty),
- Automation with the support for intents,
- Adds home screen and lock screen
You can download the free version of SSHDroid for Android from the Google Play Store.
16 – Kali Linux NetHunter
Kali Linus NetHunter is a penetration testing tool developed by the developers behind Kali Linux OS, which is also known as Offensive Security. Actually, NetHunter for Android acts an overlay that features a strong mobile penetration-testing platform.
The Kali Linux NetHunter overlay includes Kali Linux Chroot Manager, custom kernel, and an add-on Android app, all of which combined will help you easily interact with various attacks and security tools. Not only that, but it also gives you the ability to perform various attacks including BadUSB (Man-In-The-Middle) attacks, HID Keyboard Attacks, Evil AP MANA attacks.
This Android hacking tool is one of the most powerful and inexpensive penetration testing tools for Android devices.
You can download Kali Linux NetHunter for your Android phone or tablet device from here.
17 – USB Cleaver – Hacking Apps and Tools for Android
USB Cleaver is an Android-based password hacking tool designed to capture all the passwords stored in the Windows OS including Windows 2000, Windows XP, and above. This hacking tool is so powerful that it can silently capture all the passwords stored inside the browsers like Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Chrome and even has a capability to capture system information and WiFi passwords.
The USB Cleaver is actually developed by a developer named x3Maniac on XDA Developers with an aim to recover passwords from your locked Windows-based PC. This hacking tool makes use of different payloads, which can be selected based on your requirements to shorten the hacking time.
USB Cleaver is a powerful little app that remains completely silent while retrieving information from the target computer. The information this app can hack includes LSA secrets, password hashes, and IP information. The app is super clean and remains invisible because it doesn’t touch the system file nor use network traffic.
The app will then create a log file in your phone’s SD card and store all the captured information there so you can review it anytime you want.
USB Cleaver apk for Android can be downloaded from here.
18 – Orbot: Proxy with Tor
If you are looking for a way to privately browse the Internet with enhanced privacy on your Android smartphone or tablet devices then Orbot will be your best bet. The powerful proxy app is designed to help you enjoy the Tor onion routing service, which is officially developed by The Tor Project.
Orbot enables all your apps installed on your Android device to use the Internet more securely by routing all the Internet traffic through the Tor onion routing service. The service works by encrypting the Internet traffic and then hides it by routing it through a series of computers connected to the Tor network around the world.
This app and the Tor routing service helps you protect your identity from the Internet surveillance systems like traffic analysis, which threatens your personal privacy and freedom while you are online. So whenever a traffic arrives through a Tor network, you will not be able to find out where and whom it is actually from.
Moreover, the Orbot app is user-friendly and allows you to choose which apps should use the Tor routing services, so it can be enabled for selected apps only like the Chrome web browser and Facebook.
19 – Haven: Keep Watch
Did you ever want to have someone to look after your personal space or belongings all the times while you are away? The smartly made Android tool app named Haven: Keep Watch will let you hack into your Android device and can convert all the equipped on-device sensors into a surveillance and security tool.
Now you must be wondering how a simple app can transform the Android phone into a surveillance device, right? The idea is to install and setup Haven on any Android device and then leave it the area that you want to monitor. The sensors will work as a sound, movement, motion, light, and vibration detector to watch for unwanted intruders.
The on-device sensors like microphone will act as a sound detector, the camera will detect any movement or motion, in-build sensors like gyroscope, proximity, and the ambient light sensor will work as a vibration and light detector. If the sensor is triggered then the recorded movement will be automatically stored on the device.
Whenever a sensor is triggered due to intrusion, an entry will be made in a log and you will instantly receive an encrypted notification over a secure network. Also, you can access the logs remotely or anytime later when you physically gain access to the surveillance Android device.
20 – Text Converter Encoder Decoder
While communicating with your friend, if you are scared someone else could read your messages then you might want to give a try to Text Converter Encoder Decoder app for Android as it allows you to encrypt any message, which transforms it into a non-readable format, and then send it to your friend. Then your friend can decrypt the message using the same app.
This way no one else will be able to read a conversation happening between your friend and you. However, both of you must need to have the Text Converter Encoder Decoder app installed on your Android phones.
That is not all. The app even has some unique text transformation methods like an upside down text, superscript text, Base 64, text to octal, text to binary, text to ASCII.
21 – DriveDroid – Android hacking tools to access locked PC
Do you know with DriveDroid you can boot any PC, even if it is locked or password protected, using ISO image files stored on your Android device?
Most of the Android devices have a built-in capability of Mass Storage, thanks to the Linux/Android kernel. Using the same feature, DriveDroid app can simulate USB flash drive and the ISO or IMG files stored on the phone can be used to allow booting of OS, installation of new OS, or even let you have a portable OS of your choice on the go.
Though the most important point is that DriveDroid app requires root permission on the phone, which means you must need to have a rooted Android device. Also, the kernel of your Android phone/tablet device must need to support simulating a USB flash drive as well as CD-drive. However, if your device’s kernel doesn’t have a native support for these features then there are kernel patches available for various Android devices to add support.
What’s more interesting is that the DriveDroid app includes a large number of downloadable images (somewhere around 35 operating systems) like Arch Linux, FreeBSD, Fedora, Linux Mint, OpenSUSE, Ubuntu, Kali Linux. This will help you directly download and have an image of portable OS of your choice with you at all times.
22 – PixelKnot: Hidden Messages
PixelKnot: Hidden Messages is a unique Android hacking app that helps you hide secret messages inside the picture’s pixel and password protect it so that only those with the password can see, that is why the app is named as PixelKnot.
PixelKnot: Hidden Messages is a popular tool among hackers who use this app for sharing hidden special messages within their group so that no one else can find out what’s being discussed. Moreover, if anyone gains access to the pictures with the hidden message then they will only be able to see the picture and not the disguised message.
The message can be hidden in any picture and the app will let you choose between capturing a new picture using the camera or use an existing picture that is already in your phone’s gallery.
What’s more interesting is that the PixelKnot app is free from any advertisements and the pictures with a hidden message are mathematically secure and safe from attacks.
23 – NetCut – Network Hacking Apps for Android
NetCut is designed and developed by Arcai.com and is capable of blocking Internet access to other users on the same WiFi network. The app will let you hack into the wireless WiFi network and shows you a list of all the devices that are currently connected to the network. You can simply select the device to which you want to block the Internet access.
Since NetCut makes use of an advanced Android WiFi hacking feature, so it requires you to have a rooted Android device. But if you don’t have root access then you will only be able to use a few simple features of the app.
The app comes handy in those scenarios when you find out that some intruder got hold of your WiFi network password and is illegitimately using your Internet connection without your permission. And the app takes just a few seconds to completely block Internet access to the targeted device. There’s no limitation on the type of device you can restrict, which means you can block phone, tablet, Xbox, PS3, PS4, computer.
What is more interesting is that the NetCut app allows you to rename the name of devices that are connected to your WiFi router so that you can better identify the known network connections and don’t accidentally block the legit device from accessing the Internet.
24 – Change My MAC – Spoof WiFi MAC
If you have ever used any public WiFi network, especially the free ones, then you must have come across a time or bandwidth limitations to restrict excessive usage of the Internet. These publically shared Internet connections are usually found in areas like coffee shops, airports, railway stations, and hotels.
These restrictions are usually linked to your device’s MAC address, which is unique for every WiFi chip/device. This is where Change My MAC app comes into action as it allows you to hack and spoof your Android device’s WiFi MAC address.
Once installed, whenever you are on the public WiFi network and the time limit is reached then all you need to do is launch the app and in the provided box enter the new MAC address or you can also generate a random MAC address from within the app. And your device’s MAC address will be spoofed in a moment.
25 – Termux
If you have ever used Ubuntu CLI then you will find Termux for Android a lot identical. It is basically a powerful terminal emulation software that comes bundled with a collection of an extensive Linux package.
The Termux app will allow you to download, install, and run a number of Android hacking apps and tools like Nmap, Metaspoilt, NetCat, and several others. Moreover, the app supports Linux commands too so you can use those as well.
26 – Lucky Patcher
Lucky Patcher is one of the best hacking apps for Android that let you modify apps, bypass license verification, and patch in-app purchases so that you can purchase in-app items for free without spending a single penny.
Even though the app requires you to have root access on your Android device, but most of the features like creating a modified version of an app with LVL emulation, removal of license verification from premium apps, removal of advertisements from the app can still be achieved without having root access.
Once all the modifications are applied, you can then create a modified APK file of the same app, which can be installed on any device.
You can download Lucky Patcher for Android from here.
27 – Game Killer – Game Hacking Apps for Android
The Game Killer app is designed to modify and cheat in various aspects of the Android games including gems, coins, XP, and unlock hard to pass levels. The app actually modifies the memory of the Android device where the game is actually running in real-time.
Game Killer is compatible with a large number of games. But keep in mind that only offline games can be hacked with this app, if you try to hack online games that are directly linked to the servers then there are chances that your account can be banned permanently.
The procedure to modify/hack games with Game Killer is very simple. First, you need to launch the game you want to hack, and then start the Game Killer app you will see the translucent window. Within the window, you can search for the game and select it from the list of running services.
You can now use the Game Killer’s built-in search feature to find the exact number that matches with the number you want to modify. For example, the number of coins in your current game is 1059 so you will need to search for the exact same number. Once found, then you need to modify the value.
That’s how simple this Android game hacking app really is.
You can download Game Killer for Android from here.
28 – Hash Suite Droid
Hash Suite Droid is an open source and completely free multi-hash cracker developed for Android devices. And as claimed by the developer, it is the first of its kind app ever designed for the Android mobile OS.
The Hash Suite Droid is a feature-rich app, which includes always-on cracking functionality that will continue the cracking process in the background even if the device’s screen is off or you are running another app, you can configure the temperature and battery threshold that if crossed will automatically stop the attack.
Moreover, similar to the PC version of Hash Suite Droid, the Android version includes all the features like the ability to resume the interrupted attack, compressed wordlists, handcrafted ARM NEON assembly code, ability to crack GPU via OpenCL. The only known feature missing from the Android version of Hash Suite Droid is the Reports.
You can download Hash Suite Droid for Android from here.
29 – Market Helper
Market Helper is developed by a developer named redphx with an aim to help you spoof your device model number so that you can download and install apps that are incompatible with your version of Android phone/tablet device.
For example, you can transform your Google Nexus 7 to Samsung Galaxy S7 within a matter of seconds without even rebooting your device. The app will override the model number and other relevant details and change it according to your selected device’s specs.
Usually, in most of the cases, if you look for a method to spoof your device model number then you will be suggested to edit build.prop file. However, Market Helper will spoof your Android device without modifying any system file, which makes it safer.
The restoration process of reverting your original device settings is easier too. All you are required to do is restart your Android device. Alternatively, you can use the Restore feature found within the Market Helper app.
You can download Market Helper app for Android from here.
Which Hacking Apps Would You Prefer?
These are some best hacking apps for Android, do you know some more amazing hacking tools or did I miss to include any of your favorite Android hacking apps? Please let me know about them in the comments below and I will add them to the list! 🙂
Contact [email protected] if you need to get access to your spouse phone they can hack whatever phone or account with no traces contact them for any type of hack including kik, Snapchat,whatsapp,instagram they can help you anytime any day.I’ve heard this phone was hard, and this being my first root attempt with ANY phone or course it’d be my springboard. I know the typical basics, my largest problem is that it is #straighttal, I’ve crawled (to the best of my abilities) all over @XDA, no diceAlmost every Android phone and device comes equipped with a Google app and voice search assistant, and once that is linked to your Google account and activated. Merely saying the Google Assistant commands like “Ok Google” or “Hey Google” will wake up the assistant, and your phone will go into listening mode. All ready to listen and understand your command in any supported language.
Over a period of several years, Google has made considerable improvements in its voice searches and actions on the Google Assistant app as well as Google Home and Home Mini devices. It has been polished so much that you can give commands to Google as if you are talking to another human being.
Google Assistant is highly capable, from controlling your smart lights to air conditioner and heater as well as finding out details related to your favorite TV show, all using your voice.
Ok Google and Hey Google Commands Cheat Sheet
Here is a cheat sheet to help you give an idea about the things that you can get done using Google Assistant in your day-to-day routine:
How To Enable Ok Google/Hey Google Command?
Follow these steps to enable voice commands on your phone or other Android devices:
- Open the Google app.
- At the bottom, tap on the More button.
- Tap on Settings.
- Tap on Voice, and here you will see a section for Hey Google. Tap on Voice Match.
- Here you need to enable Hey Google option.
You will now be able to access Google Assistant any time you say “Hey Google,” even when if your screen is off.
Everyday Routine
Throughout your day, Google Assistant can help you with several tasks, provided how much of the things around you are automated.
Saying commands like:
- Ok Google, let’s go home. This will trigger actions for the way to home like giving you traffic updates, playing your favorite playlist, read and send texts, or anything else you have configured.
- Hey Google, good morning. The assistant will turn off the lights, tell you about the weather conditions, play your favorite podcast or news.
Using the Routine option within Google Assistant, you can personalize the commands and actions. You can even create new routines too.
Here’s how:
- On your Android device, open Google app.
- Tap on the More button, located at the bottom right corner.
- Tap on Settings > Google Assistant.
- Your profile will open along with the settings options and tabs on the top. Tap on the Assistant tab.
- From the list of options, tap on Routines.
From this screen, you can either create a new routine from scratch or customize the ready-made routines. The possibilities are endless.
Communicate with Your Friends
Here are some ways using which you can communicate with your friends with the help of Google Assistant:
- Call a friend or a relative: “Call Mom” or “Call John.”
- Text a friend: “Text Joseph that I will be there in 10 minutes.”
- Send an email: “Send an email to Kim, subject photography class reminder, message, Hi Kim, there is a photography class this weekend at 10 a.m., full stop.”
- Send a message via WhatsApp: “Send a WhatsApp message to Carl.”
Command To Unlock Your Phone Using Voice
Believe it or not, Google Assistant works even when your device is locked, and the screen is off. However, specific voice commands require you to unlock your device using PIN or fingerprint to proceed further.
Google Assistant, if configured to unlock your phone, can bypass these added security steps and can unlock your phone by just using voice command. The procedure is simple:
NOTE: The voice unlock feature works on limited Android OS, including Android 5.0 to Android 7.1. Whereas, Google has removed voice unlocking support for the newer Android OS.
- On Google Assistant settings, you first need to register a trusted voice model.
- Once your voice model has been trained and recognized successfully with Google, you can then enable voice unlock functionality through Google Assistant settings menu.
- The voice unlock functionality requires you to enable “Access with Voice Match” as well as “Unlock with Voice Match.”
Open Apps with Voice Commands
There are instances where we do have our phone in front of us, but we can’t actually use them. Let’s say, while you are doing dishes.
So, for example, you want to see your recent messages. Simply say, “Hey Google, open Messages app,” and Google Assistant will open the Messages app on your phone.
Using this same command, you can open almost any app on your phone, including third-party apps.
Get Advice and Information About Nearby Restaurant, Shop, or Eatery
We usually get clueless about where to go out for dining or shopping when the weekend is just around the corner. The Google Assistant can help you find all the nearby restaurants, eateries, shops, and malls within a matter of seconds.
Simply ask, “Hey Google, show me nearby eateries,” and it will return with all the restaurants that are near your current location. You can then find and shortlist location based on star ratings or their current offers.
Using this simple command, you can find and discover a new restaurant or place, depending on what you are looking for.
Find About Current Weather Situation
Are you planning a weekend road trip to another state? It is important to make sure the weather remains within your favor and find out how the conditions are going to be so that you can plan accordingly.
The best option is to pick up your phone and ask Google Assistant, “Ok Google, how’s the weather is going to be during the weekend?” and it will tell you if it will be cold, hot, humid, or rainy along with the wind conditions and complete forecast.
You can even ask assistant to open your favorite weather forecast or radar app to see current weather conditions.
Quickly Setup Important Reminders
You can quickly set up important reminders about anything you have to do or something you are keeping somewhere and want Google Assistant to remember that for you, it will do that swiftly. Here’s what you have to tell:
“Hey Google, remind me to pay electricity bills on 15th at 12:30 p.m.” It will automatically create a reminder and ask you for a confirmation in case you want to make any modifications.
Similarly, you can use similar commands to remind you of a birthday or anniversary, or maybe that email that needs a reply. And it will automatically store that for you in the calendar app.
Can I Change/Customize Ok Google Command To Something Else?
Just like you, I have this question in my mind as well because, unlike Google, other brands have a human-like name.
For Apple, we have Siri. For Amazon, we have Alexa. For Microsoft, we have Cortana. But Google seems to be brand conscious here and want us to keep calling their brand name to wake up the AI assistant.
Although the AI behind Google Assistant is really very powerful and can help you get done a lot with just your voice, and plays a vital role in taking automation to the next level with the help of Google Home, mobile devices, and other gadgets/appliances that support or come equipped with Google Assistant.
But the question remains, can I change Ok Google command to something else? Is there any option to personalize the wake-up command?
Well, the straightforward answer is no. You can’t. Google just doesn’t want you to do that.
However, since we are talking about Android devices here, which by far are one of the most highly customizable software thanks to it being open-source, so there is actually a way to personalize and change Ok Google, or Hey Google wake up command to something else. 😉
But that’s another topic, and I will share about that in a different blog post.
Until then, I would love to hear about your opinion about Google Assistant and want to know your thoughts regarding anything specific you want me to discuss or add to this post. Please feel free to let me know in the comments below.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidEasiest Ways to Stream Kodi on Chromecast using Android
We have shared three ways to quickly setup, install, and stream Kodi to Chromecast using Android phone and tablet devices….
9 Android Secret Tips & Tricks You Wish To know Earlier
One thing is confirmed, you love Android smartphones and eager to learn more about its powerful functionalities to get the…
How to fix Android Phone that keeps Freezing [Tutorial]
Are you experiencing Android phone freezing problems and unexpected apps stopping issues that won’t let you use your phone or…
How to Spoof in Pokemon GO with Rooted Android devices [Detailed Guide]
Did you ever want to spoof in the Pokemon GO on your Android device while remaining rooted? Or maybe you…
How to Spoof in Pokemon GO Android without Root [Detailed Guide]
Are you looking for a working method to spoof in Pokemon GO without rooting your Android device? You have come…
How to install & use Exodus on Kodi [Tutorial]
Exodus, if not the best, is one of the best add-ons for any Kodi setup whether it is on Android,…
5 Quickly & Easiest Ways to Root Android Phone/Tablet without PC
If you are looking for some quick and easy ways to root your Android devices without a computer then this…
Root Android using KingRoot [Ultimate Guide]
Are you in search for a quick and easy method on how to root Android using KingRoot? Here we have…
How to Quickly Root your Asus Zenfone 2 Laser [Tutorial]
Are you looking for a working method to root Asus Zenfone 2 Laser using TWRP and without unlocking bootloader? If…
Cheat in GTA San Andreas for Android with JCheater [Tutorial]
Do you find it hard to complete missions, unlock vehicles, and weapons in GTA San Andreas Android version? With JCheater…
Cheat/Hack GTA SA, VC, III on Android with CLEO Mods Scripts [Tutorial]
Are you unable to use cheat codes in GTA San Andreas, GTA Vice City, or GTA 3 on Android? Or…
9 Amazing Pokemon GO Cheats & Hacks – Get Free Pokeballs, Pokemon & Hatch Eggs
Do you have a lot of eggs to hatch in the Pokémon GO and finding it hard to hatch them?…
PokeZZ & PokeSniper Working Alternatives For Pokémon GO
Do you want to quickly complete your Pokemon Go Gen 2 Pokedex before your friends? Or maybe you are looking…
PokeAlert Pokemon Go Tracker Guide & APK Download
Are you in search for a working personal Pokemon tracker & scanner that can help you scan and track all…7 Best English Learning Apps for Android
Best Android apps that can help you learn English quickly and easily. Language is a communication skill, and anyone can…
6 Best App Killer Task Manager for Android
Best app killer and task manager apps for Android to help fix your resource-hungry and slow phone. Did your Android device become slow and started to drain a lot of battery power lately? But you don’t know what to do? We have a possible solution for you…
Best Chat Room Apps to Meet New People Online
Best chat room apps to meet new people online and go on dates. Have you ever thought about finding new…
16 Best Video Chat Apps for Free Calls
Best video chat apps for free calls on Android – Are you looking for a way to have one-on-one video…
13 Free Best Android Clock Widgets
Best Android Clock Widgets are reviewed here. If you are in search of best clock widgets that come with personalization capabilities to suit your Android home screen better to make it stylish, then you are at the right place.
Best Pokemon Go Joystick Spoof GPS Hacks
Best Pokemon Go joystick spoof GPS hacks and apps are reviewed here. If you are looking for some of the best location spoofing apps that work with Pokemon game, then you have come to the right place as here we have an ultimate list of working Pokemon Go location hacks for Android.
30 Pokemon Go Discord Servers for Sniping, Raiding, Battles
Are you looking for the best sources to find coordinates for Pokemon sniping? You have come to the right place…
10 Best Calendar Apps to Stay Organized
Best Calendar apps for Android to help you stay organized. Are you in search of the best calendar app that is easy to use, lightweight, and satisfies all of your requirements to keep yourself on schedule? You have come to the right spot!
10 Best Keyboard Apps for Android
Best Keyboard apps for Android, are you tired of the default keyboard app that comes preinstalled on your Android and looking for something with more features and customizability? This article will help you out!
10 Best Online Dating Apps for Relationships
Did you ever wonder how you would be able to discover people who are available for meet-ups and share a mindset as same as yours?
20 Best Email Client Apps For Your Android Phone
Did you ever want to manage all of your emails right from your Android smartphone like professionals? We know that…
7 Best Android Apps to Listen & Download Music For Free
Do you want to download the latest songs, music, or podcast in MP3 format on your Android so that you…
10 Best Offline Android Games To Play Without Internet
Are you looking for some of the best offline Android games that do not require the Internet connection and you…
29 Best Hacking Apps and Tools for Android Smartphones
Do you want to unleash the true potential of your Android device and want to perform hacking? Here I have…These clock widgets will make sure it fulfills your requirements to keep a quick check on time, calendar, alarm, and weather forecasts too. We have reviewed minimalist, digital, and analog clock widgets.
We at BestForAndroid make sure that our readers get the best of the best for their Android phones and tablets without spending a lot of time looking around the Play Store for the feature-rich apps. So, in an attempt to save your time, we have tried and tested all the widget apps and then compiled a list of the best ones that are simple and easier to set up and offer the most features and customization possibilities.
The best clock widgets for Android to help you effectively keep track of your time along with alarm, calendar, and weather right from your home screen, the apps are listed below:
Digital Clock Widgets for Android
1. ASUS Digital Clock & Widget
ASUS Digital Clock & Widget is a simple clock widget app for Android that provides you with a selection of over six different widgets to help you decorate your Android home screen with your choice of multifunctional clock widget.
The widgets are fully compatible with both tablets as well as smartphone devices. And your device must need to be running Android 4.2 Jelly Bean and above.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Analog Clock – 2 x 2
- Digital Clock – 2 x 1
- Pure Fresh – 2 x 2
- Rainbow – 2 x 2
- Sun Moon – 2 x 2
- Time Roller – 2 x 2
Pros and Cons:
- Home screen clock widgets in six different sizes and styles.
- Clock widgets will give you a preview of date, time, alarm status, and location info.
- The selection for widgets is low.
- Widgets cannot be customized.
2. Weather & Clock Widget Android
Weather & Clock Widget Android is one of the most feature-rich and highly customizable clock widget apps that comes with over twenty-five different sizes and types of clock and weather widgets to serve your need for home screen widget.
The provided widgets will make it easier for you to keep track of time, alarm, date, weather forecasts, your to-do list as well as battery information.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Weather – 2 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 1 [6 different widget options]
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2 [10 different widget options]
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 3 [8 different widget options]
Pros and Cons:
- Over 25 different clock and weather widgets to choose from.
- Compatible with multiple screen resolutions, including smartphone and tablet devices.
- Fully customizable and configurable widgets.
- It contains ads, but the ad-free version is available via in-app purchases.
- The clock freezes unexpectedly on some devices.
3. Transparent Clock & Weather
Transparent Clock & Weather widgets will allow you to get detailed and updated information right on your Android device’s home screen. And that information includes time, date, weather info, weather forecast, alarm details, battery level, and calendar events.
Moreover, the possibilities for customization and personalization of widgets are endless. You can modify the text color, background color, font style, weather icon, opacity, and a lot more to complement it with the look of your home screen.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Weather – 2 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 1 [3 different widget options]
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2 [5 different widget options]
- Clock + Weather Forecast – 4 x 3 [2 different widget options]
Pros and Cons:
- Resizable and fully customizable widgets.
- Different widget skins to enhance customizability.
- It provides over 11 widgets to choose from.
- Time and weather widget freezes occasionally.
4. Alarm Clock for Me
Alarm Clock for Me is not only an alarm clock for your Android device, but it also comes packed with over seven different widgets to decorate your home screen so that you can have the clock and alarm reminder at your easy access.
There are various styles and sizes of widgets, including the digital style clock and analog styled clock. And both of these widget styles come with an upcoming alarm preview.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Clock + Alarm – 2 x 1
- Digital Clock/Analog Clock + Alarm – 2 x 2 [3 different widget options]
- Clock + Alarm – 4 x 2 [2 different widget options]
- Analog Clock + Alarm – 4 x 3
Pros and Cons:
- Seven different sizes and styles of home screen widgets.
- Unique ultrasonic styled analog clock style.
- Ability to resize widgets.
- The alarm might not work occasionally.
5. Sense V2 Flip Clock & Weather
All of the features and functionalities of the Sense V2 Flip Clock & Weather is exactly similar to the one we just discussed previously in the above app. The only difference you are going to notice between the two apps is modifications in the appearance of the widgets, which makes it one of the best clock widgets app for Android.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2
- Clock + Weather – 5 x 2
Pros and Cons:
- Three different widget styles.
- All the widgets are scale-able and resizable according to your home screen grid size.
- The app provides you with the capability to modify the appearance of the widget.
- Limited widget sizes.
6. Digital Clock Widget Xperia
Digital Clock Widget Xperia is an app that has been specifically designed to provide you with digital clock widgets that contain the look, feel, and appearance of Sony Xperia phones. So, if you are one of those who likes the way clock widgets look in the Xperia, then you are going to love this app.
The extreme customizability options will help you personalize each and every possible aspect of the digital clock widget, including font type, appearance, transparency, and several other possibilities so that you can match it with the look of your home screen.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Clock + Weather – 2 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 2 x 2
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2
Pros and Cons:
- Four different widget sizes.
- Fully customizable and resizable.
- Ability to launch targeted apps by tapping parts of the widget.
- Premium version adds several pro features, including custom fonts and adjustable transparency levels.
- It contains advertisements, but it can be removed with the purchase of a premium version.
7. Beautiful Widgets Pro
Are you looking for a paid widget app with some premium level of modifications along with great customizability? You should give a try to Beautiful Widget Pro.
As it is a premium version, it brings you a lot of themes and customization possibilities so that you can personalize your home screen widget according to your personal preference. The app will give you a complete clock widget to provide you with information about time, date, alarm, weather forecasts, and a lot of more details right on your home screen.
Pros and Cons:
- Fully compatible with smartphones and tablets.
- Huge variety of themes for the widget.
- Ability to customize widgets.
- The app is updated less frequently.
- Time and weather widget might be stuck occasionally.
Minimalist Clock Widgets for Android
8. Retro Clock Widget
Retro Clock Widget is an app that is specifically designed to let you add that classical mechanical based flipping clock widgets to your home screens. That way, you can keep track of time and date without opening any clock or calendar app.
Whenever you tap on the time or calendar section of the widget, the app has the built-in ability to open the default system app that is assigned to it. And in case you want to customize the look, feel, transparency, and color of the widgets, then you will need to opt for the Retro Clock Settings app, which is available on the Google Play Store for about $0.99.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Retro Clock – 2 x 1
- Retro date – 2 x 1
- Retro Clock Vertical – 2 x 2
- Retro Clock Horizontal – 4 x 1
- Retro Clock XL – 4 x 2
Pros and Cons:
- Over five different widgets to choose from.
- Simple function designed to launch targeted system apps upon a tap on the parts of a widget.
- The requirement to download a separate paid app for customization.
- No way to modify the date and time format.
9. Chronus: Information Widgets
Chronus: Home & Lock Widget brings a whole set of sophisticatedly designed and styled clock widgets that provide some of the best flexibilities along with additional customizable options.
There is a pro version of Chronus too that can be bought via in-app purchases, which will unlock a number of additional widgets, features, options, and widget customization possibilities.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Clock + Date – 3 x 2 [2 different widget options]
- Weather – 4 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2 [2 different widget options]
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 3 [2 different widget options]
- Clock + Calendar + Weather – 4 x 4 [7 different widget options]
Pros and Cons:
- Ability to add multiple widgets to your home screen without any impact on your device’s battery life.
- Highly customizable feel and look of the widgets.
- The Pro version provides additional customization possibilities.
10. Sense Flip Clock & Weather
As the name of the app suggests, Sense Flip Clock & Weather, it will give you a flip-style clock along with a weather forecast for your selected area. The app is quite limited in the number of widgets as compared to the others on the list.
However, despite the limitation in widget grid sizes and functions, the app does provide you with a massive list of visual customizations that comes in the form of widget skin. Moreover, a lot of customizable options allow you to personalize the clock style and weather reporting.
Supported Widgets and Sizes:
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 1
- Clock + Weather – 4 x 2
- Clock + Weather – 5 x 2
Pros and Cons:
- About three widget styles to choose from.
- All the widgets are scale-able and resizable according to your home screen grid size.
- The app provides you with the capability to modify the appearance of the widget.
- Limited widget sizes.
Analog Clock Widgets for Android
11. Analog Clock Live Wallpaper
As the name of the app suggests, Analog Clock Live Wallpaper acts as a live wallpaper for your Android home screen and provides widgets as well. The home screen clock widget has the ability to show you the month and day of the week.
Pros and Cons:
- There are numerous sizes of clock and widgets.
- You can show/hide second hand.
- Option to modify the color scheme of primary hand, secondary hand, and text.
- You can change the text on the logo.
- Two types of color selections are available, i.e., solid and gradient.
12. Clock
Clock by Egert is an entirely customizable and personalizable analog clock widget for Android phones and tablet devices. Similar to the previously mentioned widget app, this one also allows you to set a widget and live wallpaper.
The app lets you customize the clock on the widget as well as live wallpaper by going to the app settings menu. This is one of the most minimalistic analog clock widget apps.
Pros and Cons:
- Android analog clock widget with a minimal look.
- Lightweight app and consumes an insignificant amount of process power and battery.
- Ability to customize what happens when you tap on the clock widget.
13. Analog Clock Widget
Analog Clock Widget by Sandraprog is one of the most highly customizable analog clock widget apps for Android that provides some of the simplest and easiest ways to personalize the look and feel of the clock.
The app offers you over five widget options, which include widgets in 2×2 and 3×3 sizes. And comes with builtin analog clock face designs.
Pros and Cons:
- The app is free from advertisements.
- Offers widgets in two sizes to suit your needs.
- Over five clock face designs in a variety of colors.
- Lacks the personalized color selection for the clock face.
Back To You
Did the apps mentioned in the list fulfill your requirements for the home screen clock widget? Which of the best clock widgets app provides the maximum customizability and personalization for your Android to better manage your time, keep track of the weather, and stay on your calendar schedule?
Please share your valuable opinions in the comments down below; we would love to hear them! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidAll the discussions related to Android mobile phones. Ask questions and suggestions about upcoming smartphone models, newly released mobile phones, rumors, reviews, news, and updates related to Android phones.Best chat room apps to meet new people online and go on dates. Have you ever thought about finding new friends and having a conversation with them using the chat room? Or maybe you are looking for a medium to network with new people from another part of the world to learn about their culture, language, or to find out people who are like-minded?
Chat room apps provide you the best medium to help you with getting connected to the right type of people without you requiring to share much of your personal details.
Chat room apps for Android are popular among those who are looking for a way to socialize and connect with new people from different parts of the world. These apps have continuously proved to help users in bridging gaps between two complete strangers as it works as open social networks, and then later turns them into good friend because they share similar interests.
Best Chat Room Apps for Android
Here in this article we have tried and tested many chat room apps, and have listed only the ones that will provide the maximum value while at the same time help you get connected to the relevant chat rooms where you can meet new people based on your geo-location and interest.
It is important to note here that since the apps featured in this list are community-based and comprises of public chat rooms, which are not usually regulated, so you may come across many fake people or profiles. That’s the only risk of being in a public forum or chat room.
1 – WOLF – Group Chat Room & Live Audio Shows
Are you interested in participating in the mobile gaming communities? Or, are you looking for dedicated gaming groups where you can find and chat with like-minded people from around the world?
Previously known as Palringo, now named as WOLF, is a group chat and live audio show app that helps you find and discover wide variety of chat groups where you can make friendships for life while keeping yourself entertained.
Wolf is a popular group messenger app that let you search and join dedicated communities created by the users specifically for the discussion of different mobile games including the most popular Pokemon Go.
The game community is like a chat room where you are allowed to discuss the game, participate in the public opinions, and even chat privately with your friends. There is also a group functionality, where you can add your friends and then play a wide range of games with them while having a group conversation.
- Join gaming chat rooms created by people from all over the world.
- Play games while having a group chat.
- Let you send multimedia messages like pictures and audio recordings.
- Allow you to create your own group or chat room.
- You may experience occasional connection error.
- Lack of proper customer support.
2 – Camfrog: Chat Flirt Video with Friends and Strangers
Camfrog is a popular and widely used video chat room based community where you can have video conversations with millions of users who are active from all around the world. The app is compatible with multiple platforms including Android, iOS, Mac, and PC, which allows more people to get in touch with each other.
With this app, you can search and browse through thousands of chat rooms created by people from every part of the world. You are free to join any chat room and have a video chat with the participants.
- Cross-platform and compatible with Android, iOS, Mac, and PC.
- Room browser where you can search or browse through thousands of active chat rooms.
- You can have a live group video chat with hundreds of active members of the chat room.
- Ability to add friends to your Camfrog contact list.
- The recent update changed the whole user interface making it hard to use.
- Some features require you to have a pro version.
3 – BAND – Chat Room App for all Groups
Are you a part of team organizer or a group manager? Or maybe you are looking to join a chat room based community related to your hobby?
BAND group and communities app would be the best bet for you as it is designed to help you organize your private group or discover and join new groups according to your interests. The app not only limited to groups, there are thousands of open forums and chat rooms related to your favorite topics like sports, gaming, food, travel, relationship, fashion, fitness.
You can even join chat rooms, forums, and local communities based on your location so that you can get in touch with your locals in your country or those who are located nearby you and can become a part of public meet-ups.
- There are thousands of chat rooms to choose from including game, food, travel and leisure, fitness, sports.
- Easy to use for the management of a private community or a group of people, and stay in touch with everyone.
- Ability to share files, calendar events, create a poll, share photo albums, and chat with the members.
- Groups can be accessed easily from the smartphone, tablet, or even a computer with an active Internet connection.
4 – SKOUT – Meet, Chat, Go Live
Skout helps you meet and chat with new people from all around the world anonymously. You can quickly broadcast yourself live from anywhere and find people who are interested in the same topic.
The broadcast and chat room feature allows you to discover new friends nearby you or from any part of the world. Every day, about million people connect with each other and meet likeminded people with the help of this app.
Regardless of your location, you can find, meet, and chat with new people based on your preferences like proximity, live broadcasts, browsing profiles, and whatnot.
- Join chat rooms or connect with people based on your geo-location and interest.
- Connect to the people you share a mutual interest with.
- Ability to start live broadcasts and interact with your audience.
- Share pictures, videos, and audio while chatting in a chat room.
5 – Moco: Chat Room & Meet New People
Moco is being used by millions of people from all around the world which gives you the wonderful opportunity to get connected with new people, make new friends, be more social, and you can even play multiplayer games with them.
There are hundreds of forums and chat rooms that you can join according to your interest and share your personal opinion with the rest of the world. You can even search for people using the filters like age, gender, and location so that you can connect with the right person.
- Chat rooms to get in touch with a lot of people and share your opinions.
- Join groups or start a private conversation.
- Make new friends and play multiplayer games with them.
- You can personalize your messages using emoticons, themes, stickers, fonts, and colors.
- Sometimes the app will show you a lot of annoying and pop up advertisements.
6 – Coco
Coco is basically a free calling app that allows you to call all over the world but there is a socialization feature that helps you get connected with the people and groups that are located around you. You can even join public chat rooms from within the app and let you get in touch with the new people globally.
If you have found a new friend then you can easily stay connected with them and get the private conversations started using the features like instant text and push-to-talk voice message. The coco’s mission is to provide a platform that removes boundaries and help the people find each other without any limitations.
- Get connected with people using the features like Nearby Groups, Winks, and Shake Shake.
- Join public chat rooms or create one to attract new/likeminded people.
- Share your recent happenings and interact with your friend’s updates using Moments.
- You might come across bugs or compatibility issues because the app has not been updated for the past few months.
7 – SayHi Chat, Meet New People
SayHi is a wonderful chat room app where you can find and meet new people, go on an online date, and chat with them in real-time. You can configure the app to show you people who are nearby you or within your country or state.
The app shows your fellow friends on a map, which makes it easier for you to find out more about them, and with the help of their profiles, you can learn about their interests, and engage in exciting conversations.
SayHi allows various ways to have conversations, which includes video chat, voice messages, text messages through chat rooms, ability to share photos, and send videos.
- Compatible with several platforms including Android and iOS.
- Ability to find and discover chat rooms related to your interest.
- Express more with messages, photos, documents, music, and videos.
8 – WeChat
WeChat helps you chat with the best all around the world. You connect with over billion users globally through calls, messages, video calls, voice messages, and attractive stickers to express yourself in the best way possible.
As the app let you enjoy chat room and find new people, it also helps you with message translation to make it a lot easier for you to have conversations with likeminded people.
Good thing is that WeChat is a cross-platform app compatible with various mobile devices including Android and iOS. Moreover, WeChat Pay let you send and receive payments to and from your friends.
- You can share your opinion and discuss any specific topic by joining forums.
- Meet people and be friends with people through WeChat Rooms.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android, iOS, and other devices.
9 – MeetMe: Chat & Meet New People
MeetMe provides you with the best medium where you are free to share and discuss your interests with people from all over the world. There are more than 100 million people using the app, which increases your chances to discover and meet some like-minded people from any part of the world.
There are not many limitations on the usage of the app so that you can freely chat with people, make new friends, and then eventually meet them. All because of this social app. The discuss tab comprises of several topics including movies, music, partying, food, sports, leisure. Joining the room that interests you the more will help you find relevant people.
- Discuss section allows you to find topics relevant to your interest, where you can share and discuss a wide range of topics.
- Ability to find strangers, make new friends and chat with them.
- MeetMe allows you to find and discover new people that are located near you.
- Might be hard to discover genuine profiles using the discover feature.
10 – Viber Messenger
We all know that Viber is a popular communication and messenger app that allows you to stay in touch with your friends and existing contacts via calls, messaging, and video chat.
But apart from these usual messaging features, what many people don’t know is that Viber allows you to actively participate in public chats. You can search, find, and discover dedicated chat rooms for various topics from around the world. You can share and exchange views with the people participating in the chat room.
- Find trending topics and chat rooms using the Discover chat feature.
- Share, exchange and learn about people’s opinions on your topics of interest using the Public Chat room.
Which Chat Room App Is Your Favorite?
Which chat room apps have you tried? Do you have any favorite community or chat room app that helps you in getting connected with the right type of people?
Please let us know in the comments down below, we would love to hear about them! 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android- This is the ultimate guide to watch movies on Kodi for free, including TV shows, latest films, documentaries, cartoons, and other streamable content.
- The good thing is we are going to show you some of the best Kodi addons for movies and TV shows that are working right now in 2020.
- In short: if you want to watch movies and TV shows on Kodi for free then you are going to love this guide.
Are you wondering how to watch movies and TV shows on Android for free without any restrictions? Look no further, here we have a complete step-by-step tutorial where we will guide you through the proper Kodi installation on Android and which addon you can use to stream movies on Kodi for free.
But first, a little introduction to Kodi and how it allows you to watch movies.
Kodi is one of the most popular media players for digital media playback. The app is easy and simple to use and will let you stream movies, browse and view photos, listen to music and podcasts from a wide range of sources including local network, optical disc, hard drive, flash drive, and the Internet.
That means Kodi is just a media player, and the content needs to be provided from an external source, medium, or addon. Talking about add-ons, if you install working Kodi add-on (which we have listed and reviewed below), you will be able to stream endless content like TV shows, films, movies, and even watch live TV channels for free.
Once Kodi has been installed on Android device, and the add-on has properly set up, you will be able to watch movies and films if enough Internet bandwidth and data are available to stream media content seamlessly. If you need more details, you can use this guide to watch movies on Kodi. That’s how simple it really is to watch movies on Kodi for free.
Now first, we are going to share with you a list of best Kodi addons for movies and TV shows and then we will guide you through the installation of Kodi on your Android device as well as show you how to install third-party addons to watch movies on Kodi for free.
Best Kodi Addons for Movies & TV Shows
Here are some of the famous and working Kodi add-ons that will let you watch movies and TV shows on your Kodi setup for free:
Tempest
Tempest is a brand new Kodi addon and currently one of the most up to date Kodi addons for movies and TV shows, which supports native integration for movie tracking services like Trakt. They have a huge database where you can easily find all the old and new movies & TV show titles and even IPTV channels.
For those of you who have previously used other addons like Covenant or Exodus, then you are going to find Tempest very much similar to those addons as they seem to be like their fork. Regardless of the similarities, this Kodi addon is quick to find and fetch working streams.
Repository – https://tempest0580.github.io
FEN
FEN is a recently released movie and TV show Kodi addon that has managed to gain a lot of popularity among the users because it provides you with working streaming links for all the new as well as old shows and movies.
Since the addon is hosted on the Tikipeter repository, so it uses its very own movies and TV shows links scraping technique known as Tiki Scrapper. Which apparently is a lot more powerful in fetching links as compared to the scrappers found in other Kodi addons.
Repository – https://tikipeter.github.io
The Magic Dragon
The Magic Dragon Kodi addon offers you a wide range of TV shows and movies for a never-ending round of entertainment, which is exactly how this addon managed to claim one of the top positions for best Kodi addons for movies and TV shows.
For those of you who are wondering, the Magic Dragon addon is hosted on Kodi Diamond build repo and can be quickly installed. It has become the go-to addon for the majority of Kodi users from all around the world to consume the latest shows and movies.
Repository – http://repo.rubyjewelwizard.com
The Crew
Being one of the newest additions to the Kodi addon list, The Crew has managed to become one of the most favorite movies and TV shows addon for Kodi users because it offers additional content like cartoons, sports, IPTV, and a lot of entertainment-related content.
The addon is proudly hosted by The Team Crew on the GitHub repository and can be easily downloaded on your Kodi device by going to the repo link given below. The Crew addon features a huge library of popular and old as well as latest movies and TV shows available in high definition and ultra HD quality.
Repository – https://team-crew.github.io
Venom
The Venom Kodi addon to watch movies on Kodi was recently released to compete with other existing well-known addons like Covenant and Exodus. And now this addon has become really popular among the community who loves to watch movies and TV shows on their Kodi setup.
Venom is a powerful and feature-rich Kodi addon for movies as it allows you to filter out the content and movies or TV shows title based on rating, popularity or genre. In case you are wondering, this addon uses Lambda scraper to scan for streaming movie links from a wide range of reputable sources.
Repository – https://123venom.github.io
Exodus
Believe it or not, Exodus is one of those addons which comes in the mind of everyone who is looking for a way to watch and stream movies and TV shows for free on their Kodi devices. The addon was previously shutdown which kind of forcing users to switch to other addons and look for alternatives, but it has since been revived from scratch by a new developer.
Exodus has been one of the most reliable and best Kodi addon for movies and TV shows. The content and links are usually updated with new streaming links, but they are not always reliable. But since the addon is still working so, we have included this in our list.
Repository – https://github.com/kodibae/repository.kodibae/tree/master/repository.kodibae
Exodus Redux
Exodus Redux is a fork of the popular and original Exodus addon that we have already discussed and detailed above. However, this clone is updated more frequently and with the latest Web scrapers, since a totally different development team is managing it so you will be able to find a wider range of movies, TV shows, documentaries, cartoons and whatnot.
Although the name looks identical to an existing addon but there is a lot of difference in the user interface and usability. The best feature is the availability of movies and TV shows in various video resolution and quality, including some 4K, 1080p, and 720p.
Repository – https://i-a-c.github.io
Covenant
Covenant addon is developed by Lambda. If you have heard about Exodus or have previously used the Exodus addon, then you will find Covenant the exact similar of that addon because it is a successor and an official fork of Exodus that’s why it uses the same user interface and offers identical features.
Similar to Exodus, this addon was abandoned by its developer but recently, it has been revived and it has become better than ever before as you can find original movies, TV shows, films, cartoons, and even documentaries.
Repository – https://covenant01.github.io/zip/
Incursion
Incursion is a popular Kodi addon that lets you stream an endless number of movies, TV shows, documentaries, and a variety of video content. It is a clone of Covenant addon but it is well maintained, consistently updated, and developed more frequently with the latest movies and video content.
Repository – http://addons4kodi.site
Neptune Rising
Neptune Rising has gained a lot of traction lately due to a little bit of unsteadiness in other popular add-ons like Exodus and Covenant. Moreover, it is a clone of the Covenant addon and receives quick and frequent updates as well as better development to make sure all the latest movies and TV shows are constantly added.
Neptune Rising provides you with dozens of subcategories to choose from, including different languages, genres, and content types. You are going to find lots of content in a variety of formats. You can even filter out movies and TV shows based on their video quality.
Repository – http://legionworldtv.com/zips/
Elysium
Elysium is one of the best choices for those Kodi users who love to watch their favorite movies and TV shows because the app receives frequent content updates, which also includes documentaries and anime.
Repository – http://nan.aftermathwizard.net/nanrepo/
Placenta
The Placenta is a fairly new Kodi addon developed by Team Afterbirth. It provides you with some of the best and high quality 1080p video streams along with a large number of sources for each movie or TV show. Just like other add-ons, Placenta is a fork of Exodus addon but it works a lot better with a wide range of media libraries.
Repository – http://repo.mrblamo.xyz/
Installing Kodi on Android
There are a couple of ways you can install Kodi on your Android phone and tablet devices. If you have already installed Kodi, then skip this section and head over to the next section.
Method 1 – Install Kodi via Google Play Store
If you have Google Play Store on your Android device then this is by far one of the most reliable and straightforward ways to install Kodi on Android. This method will give you stable releases and always keeps your Kodi up to date via the Google Play app.
Here’s how to install Kodi via Google Play Store on Android:
- On your Android device, launch Google Play and search for Kodi. Or, you can tap on the following link to download and install Kodi on your phone/tablet.
- Now tap on the Install button, and Google Play will automatically download and install the right version (ARM/x86) of Kodi on your Android device.
- Once installed, a shortcut to the Kodi icon should appear on the home screen.
You can now head over to the next section, where we will guide you on how to watch movies for free on Kodi by installing an add-on.
Method 2 – Manually install Kodi via APK
In case your Android device doesn’t have Google Play or you simply want to sideload Kodi on your device, then the steps mentioned in this method will help you with the manual installation of Kodi via apk file.
The steps are as follows:
- Download Kodi apk from the official Kodi website to your Android device.
- Once downloaded, open the apk file to begin the installation process.
- You will see the following security warning about the blocked installation of apps obtained from unknown sources. Tap on Settings to continue.
- Scroll down and tap on Unknown sources to enable the installation.
- A popup will appear warning you about installing apps from unknown sources. First make sure “Allow this installation only” option is marked and then tap OK.
- The Kodi installation process will now begin. Tap on Install to start installing the app.
- It will take a while to complete. Once done, an “App installed” message will appear. Tap Done.
- A shortcut icon for Kodi will be created on the home screen.
You can now head over to the next section where we will guide you on how to watch movies for free on Kodi by installing an add-on.
How to watch movies on Kodi for free?
In this section, we will guide you about how you can watch and stream movies for free on Kodi by using an add-on.
Before we install an addon on Kodi, we first need to enable Unknown Sources. Similar to how the installation of third-party apps is disabled on Android, Kodi blocks the installation of add-ons by default. And you need to enable it once only, and then you can install whatever addon you want.
How to enable Unknown Sources on Kodi
Here’s a guide on how to enable Unknown Sources on Kodi:
- On your Android device, launch Kodi.
- Tap on Settings (cog icon).
- Tap on System settings.
- Now, from the sidebar, tap on Add-ons and then tap on Unknown sources toggle button.
- A warning popup will appear asking if you want to allow installation of add-ons from unknown sources. Tap on Yes to proceed.
How to install Kodi addon to watch movies and TV shows
Once unknown sources are enabled, we will now install an add-on to watch movies for free on Kodi. The step-by-step guide on how to install the addon on Kodi are as follows:
- Open Kodi on your Android device.
- Tap on Settings (cog icon).
- Tap on the File Manager option.
- Tap on Add source, as highlighted in the screenshot below.
- Under “Enter the paths” section, tap on <None>.
- In the provided box, type any of the repository URL we have provided in the list above. Example: http://addons4kodi.site and make sure the repo address is entered properly without any typo then tap OK.
- Now there’s another box, as highlighted in the screenshot, where you can enter a name for the media source. Tap on it.
- In the provided box, type the name of repository. For example: Incursion and tap on OK button.
- Once the source URL and source name have been entered successfully, tap on OK to continue.
- You should now see a new link to Incursion in the File manager.
- Now go back to the Kodi home screen and from the sidebar options tap on Add-ons.
- Over the top left corner, you will see an Open Box/Add-on browser icon. Tap on it.
- Tap on Install from zip file option.
- A popup menu will appear, tap on Incursion (it’s the same source file that we added earlier in step 8).
- Tap on the repository.
- Tap on repository.incursion.
- Tap on repository-0.0.3.zip.
- The installation of repository add-on will begin and once it has been successfully installed, you will see an Add-on updated popup notification appear on the top-right corner as shown in the screenshot below.
- Now tap on Install from the repository.
- Tap on Incursion Repository.
- Tap on Video Add-ons.
- Tap on Incursion.
- Tap on the Install button.
- Once the add-on has been successfully installed, an Add-on installed popup notification will appear in the top-right corner.
You can now head over to the Add-ons and then Video add-ons section on your Kodi to launch Incursion add-on. And enjoy all the old and latest movies as well as films for free on Kodi.
Conclusion
Let us know if you have any other add-on that allows watching movies and TV shows for free on Kodi. If you have any questions related to Kodi or addons then feel free to leave a comment below and our team will get back to you. And don’t forget to share your experience with Kodi as well as other Kodi addons and tell us how the movie streaming worked on your Android device.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidBest video chat apps for free calls on Android – Are you looking for a way to have one-on-one video chats with your office colleagues, friends, family members, or loved ones who are far away from you or living in a distant city? Or are you in search of an app that would let you have a group video chatting with all of them together?
The video calling apps mentioned here would help you get back in touch with them. 😉
Best Video Chatting Apps for Android
Here we have featured some of the best video chat apps for Android that will not only help you bridge the gap between you and your loved ones but will also make your whole video calling experience memorable. We have reviewed some app that offers awe-inspiring functionalities to make video chatting a breeze.
1 – JusTalk: Free Video Calls
The JusTalk is a video chat app that provides some of the unique capabilities you may not find in any other app. While video chatting with your friends or family member, you can record the video call and save it on your phone/tablet so that you can watch and relive the moments anytime you want later. Isn’t it awesome? 😀
Another feature is the doodling function that enables you to draw on the screen while video calling, so during your video call, you can express yourself even more while showing your creative side at the same time. Another point that usually users are concerned during video chat is the privacy and security of their conversations, JusTalk encrypts your voice and video call so that nobody could spy on your chats.
- Record/save all the video calls to your phone.
- Cross-platform compatibility with both Android and iOS.
- Ability to doodle/draw during video chat.
- Encryption of the video and voice chat.
- Do not support group video chat function.
2 – Google Duo
Google Duo is a relatively new dedicated video calling app developed by Google in an attempt to make the mobile video chat simplified, convenient, and easy to use than ever. The unique feature being offered by the app is the “Knock Knock” function, which lets you see the live preview of the caller even before you answer the video call.
Isn’t that amazing?
To create an account, all you need is an active mobile phone number where Google will send you an automated text for verification. And then you can start video chatting with your friends in seconds.
- See the caller before answering the call with the new ‘Knock Knock’ feature.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android and iOS.
- You might face some reliability issues.
- Video and voice quality is below the mark (as the app is in its early phases).
- Do not support group video chat function.
3 – Glide: Video Chat Messenger
Glide is a video chat messenger that lets you be connected with your friends or family members via video call in the fastest way possible. The app allows you and your friends to share the moments as it happens using the live stream function.
You can also customize the video chat messages using the filters and then share it with the group of friends to be able to express yourself in the best way possible.
- Apply filters to your video chat messages before sharing.
- Compatible with Android Wear smartwatch.
- You might face some occasional reliability issues.
- Do not support group video chat function.
4 – ICQ: Video Calls & Chat
ICQ is one of those video call apps that has been around for a long time and provides you with an excellent HD video chat capabilities that consumes less amount of data as compared to any other video chat app.
This way, you can easily have a video call whenever you are without worrying about excessive data usage.
The recent update has integrated Artisto within the app that lets you transform your standard videos and take them to the next level by adding the artistic effects. You can then share those videos with your contacts right through the app.
- Consume low data usage while video chatting.
- Compatible with Android Wear smartwatch.
- All your messages are synchronized across your devices.
- Do not require a phone number for registration.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android, iOS, and Windows.
- Do not support group video chat function.
- You may experience delayed notification occasionally.
5 – ooVoo: Video Call, Text & Voice
ooVoo is a video chat app that lets you stay connected with your friends and family using the free group video calling capabilities that support up to twelve people at a time. And because it is a cross-platform app, you can have a video call with your friends regardless of the device or platform they are using.
The one of a kind message functionality is specifically designed to let you share pictures, videos, GIF messages even while you are video chatting. And one unique aspect of this app is the fantastic avatar characters, which you can select and use during video chats.
- Supports group video calling with over 12 people.
- Free avatar characters, and you can use them during video chat.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android, iOS, and Windows.
- Works flawlessly, even on the 3G data connections.
- You might experience connectivity issues at times.
6 – Tango: Free Video Call & Chat
Tango is a messaging app with video chat capabilities, and it works pretty well on smartphones and tablets and is a cross-platform app, that is what allows you to stay in touch with those who matter the most to you.
What’s interesting about Tango is that while you are having a video chat with your friend, you can add some video filters, send stickers and even play games with them. You can also apply masks to your face and use avatars during a video chat to make the conversations fun.
You can create a group and have your very own chat room to have conversations with your friends or plan for a trip or dinner together.
- Play games with your friend during a video chat.
- Transform your face while video calls with masks and avatars.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android and iOS.
- Do not support group video chat function.
7 – Viber
Initially, Viber was developed to provide its users with a free phone call functionality to help keep them connected with their loved ones anywhere in the world through the Internet connection. But later, the developers introduced the video chat capabilities along with the end-to-end encryption, and since then, the app has gained a lot of popularity.
And because the app is not limited to video only, so you can easily switch between video and voice chat with just a tap on the screen. Moreover, similar to the other apps mentioned in the list, Viber also lets you play games with your friends without any requirements to install any extra plugin.
- Ability to easily switch between video and voice calls at any moment.
- Play games with your friends right from the app.
- Secure conversations with end-to-end encryption.
- No support for group video calling.
8 – WhatsApp Messenger
WhatsApp Messenger is a cross-platform video calling solution that supports up to 50-person group video call at any given moment. The best thing about WhatsApp is that you don’t need to create an account. There is no user ID or password.
The majority of users already have this app on their phones, which gives you the ease of access and compatibility.
In case you don’t know, WhatsApp wasn’t popular for video chatting because there were a lot of limitations. However, thanks to the competitors, the app now supports over 50 user video calling.
- Allow you to have a group video chat with up to 50 friends, family, or colleagues.
- 100% end-to-end encrypted and secure.
- Fully compatible with Android and iOS devices.
- Video chatting is limited to mobile users.
9 – KakaoTalk: Free Calls & Text
KakaoTalk is a pretty reliable app that not only supports video chatting but also allows you to have textual or vocal-based conversations with your friends and family. It supports group chats with an unlimited number of people, but this feature is only limited to voice chats. The app does not support group video chats at the moment and only allows one-on-one video calls.
And since it is a cross-platform app and is compatible with tablets, smartphones, and PCs so you can remain connected with your friends regardless of the device or operating system they are using.
- Support Android Wear smartwatch for notifications and replies.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android, iOS, BlackBerry, and Windows.
- You might experience unexpected connectivity issues sometimes.
10 – imo: Free Video Calls and Chat
imo is a communication app, and its key target is to provide you with the best and the most reliable video chat experience regardless of the mobile operating system you are using, which means it is fully compatible with Android and iOS. The app is even optimized for Android tablets.
The app is highly optimized to work on a wide range of networks and consumes fewer mobile data so that you can have decent video chat even on a slow 2G/edge mobile data connection. Moreover, you can have group video calls with your family or friends without any difficulty, but it is limited to four people only.
- Support group video chat with up to four people.
- Your calls and chats will be encrypted and secure.
- Cross-platform compatibility with both Android and iOS.
- Fully compatible with all Android tablets.
- Support Bluetooth headset.
- At times, the app fails to notify you of a call or message.
11 – WeChat
WeChat is a communication app that is popular for its services and simplified as well as a user-friendly interface. It provides high-quality voice and video calling features that allow you to call and video chat with anyone, no matter where they are and what device they are using.
There is also a Moments feature that works similar to any other social networking app and lets you share your favorite and memorable moments as well as unforgettable trips with your WeChat friends.
- Cross-platform compatibility with Android, iPhone, and computer.
- It provides maximum privacy as TRUSTe certifies the app.
- High-quality video calling capability.
- Do not support video chat with multiple people.
12 – LINE: Free Calls & Messages
LINE is messaging and calling app, which is fully compatible with multiple platforms, including Android, iOS, smartwatch, and computer.
The app lets you enjoy seamless communication and connectivity with your friends and contacts via messages, calls, and video chat. No matter where you are.
Similar to the other popular apps mentioned in the list, LINE also offers their own personal social media platform where you get your timeline and freely share priceless moments, pictures, videos, and status updates with your loved ones. You can see and leave comments on the moments being shared by your friends.
- High-definition voice and video chat feature.
- Keep feature that allows you to store your precious chats, videos, photos, and other files without worrying about losing them.
- Compatible with a wide range of devices and platforms.
- New face effects to make your conversations exclusive, and it can be used while video calling with friends.
- Video calling face effects feature is not yet compatible with all devices.
- Do not allow you to backup your chat history and data.
13 – Skype: Free IM & Video Calls
Skype is well known for video calling for quite a while now and is used to be one of the most common ways to talk face-to-face with your contacts, friends, and loved ones on the computer. But since smartphones became widespread, Skype has gained a lot more popularity among the users for instant messaging, free voice calling, and video chatting.
Due to the enormous popularity and high demand from the users, Skype introduced a group video calling that allows anyone to have a video chat with over 25 friends at a time. And that is not only limited to video, but voice calls too so that you can communicate seamlessly with your friends and family and stay connected, no matter where they are or what device they are using.
- Support group video chat with over twenty-five people at a time.
- Compatible with multiple platforms and devices so that you can stay connected with your loved ones.
- You might experience some glitch or connectivity issues while video calling.
14 – Hangouts
We did include Google Duo on the list, which is a dedicated app for video calling only. But Hangouts is another app developed by Google to make it easier for you to send text messages, have voice calls, and face-to-face video chats with your friends, share pictures and videos, all from a single app.
About video chat, Hangouts allows you to turn any conversation into a video chat and let you add over ten friends into any group video calling. This way, you can discuss anything with your loved ones, no matter in which part of the world you are located.
- Stay connected with your friend, no matter what device or platform they are using, as the app is compatible with Android, iOS, and the web.
- High-quality voice and video chat features.
- Initiate group video chat with over ten friends.
- You might experience slow or unreliable video calling at times.
- Users have reported some delays in notifications delivery.
15 – Messenger
We have listed Facebook Messenger on this list as it has already been installed on most of the people’s phone and tablets. It is one of the best ways to communicate and have a face-to-face video chat with your co-workers, friends, loved ones, and even family members as they are already added to your Facebook friends list.
Yes, many don’t know about the video calling capabilities of Facebook Messenger. Still, it does exist and works pretty well and allows you to reach any of your Facebook friends instantly irrespective of the phone or device they are using because the Messenger app is compatible with multiple platforms.
- Video chat with any of your Facebook friends.
- Messenger allows you to add your favorite contact’s icon to your Android home screen so that you can reach them within seconds.
- Cross-platform compatibility allows you to seamlessly connect with your contacts without worrying about the device they are using.
- You might experience sync issues on some devices as the message fails to deliver to the recipient.
16 – Snapchat
Many Snapchatters don’t know about it, but Snapchat recently overhauled their app and introduced a voice and video chatting capabilities along with numerous other features, so that you can stay connected with your friends all from within a single app.
Using the Snapchat, all you have to do is tap on any of your friend’s name and then tap on the telephone or video icon to either send a voice chat or leave a video chat message for your friend, only if your friend is unavailable. And in case your friend is available, they will be given an option to either ‘watch’ you or ‘join’ the video chat and start chatting.
- Ability to send a quick video chat note, even if your friend is offline.
- It allows you to video chat with your friends, no matter what device or platform they are using because the app is compatible with both Android and iOS.
- Do not support group video chat.
- Might consume a little bit more memory as compared to other video chat apps because it is a resource-hungry app.
Conclusion
Do you have any favorite video chatting apps? Please let us know in the comments below about the video calling apps you use for your day-to-day communication with your office colleagues, friends, and family…
We will test that out and feature it on the list. 🙂
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for Android- 100% working step-by-step guide on how to get Spotify Premium for free on Android, iOS, Windows PC, and Mac OS without spending a cent.
- Once you have followed this tutorial, you will be able to enjoy all the paid premium Spotify features, including unlimited skips, enable extreme sound quality, block ads, and the ability to play any song.
- At the end of this ultimate guide, we have answered some frequently asked questions to help you out with the common problems related to Spotify.
What is Spotify?
Spotify is one of the most widely used music-streaming app, which not only allows you to listen to millions of soundtracks but it also gives you the ability to create your very own personalized playlists for music, podcasts, and songs.
You can even share your favorite music and playlists with your friends. And the best feature is the capability to sync your music across all of your devices, including Android, iOS, Windows, and Mac.
There are over twenty million soundtracks that you can search, play, and even download for offline listening using the Spotify Premium account.
Spotify offers two account types:
Spotify Free: To get Spotify free, simply signup using your email address. The process takes just a few minutes. But it comes with certain limitations like shuffle music play, no skips, and audio/video advertisements.
Spotify Premium: The Spotify Premium offers tons of features using which you can download music for offline listening, listen in extreme sound quality, skip unlimited songs, and you won’t get ads.
Talking about premium, Spotify offers three popular paid plans starting from as low as $4.99 per month for the Student plan and going as high as $14.99 per month for Family plan (which supports six accounts).
For many, these charges become too high, considering it’s a subscription-based model and requires a monthly payment. Don’t worry as you can follow our in-depth guide to get Spotify Premium free.
How to Get Spotify Premium for free on Android, iOS, Windows PC, and Mac OS
Spotify is a cross-platform service and has a dedicated app for every device like Android, iPhone, tablets, and PC (whether it is Windows or Mac).
Here in this guide, we are going to help you get Spotify Premium to that you can use most of the paid and premium features for free for as long as you want.
Using Multiple 90-days Premium Trial Accounts (Easiest Spotify Hack)
The easiest Spotify Premium hack is to officially subscribe for the 90-days or 3-months free trial offered by the Spotify for new users. (Previously, it was for 30-days).
You can use this method to enjoy all premium features, including offline listening for free. Still, the only downside is you will have to create a new email address as well as a new Spotify account once every ninety days.
We know the method is not much efficient, but it is very effective for sure, as this works on all supported platforms, whether it’s Android, iOS, Windows, or Mac OS.
Join Your Friend’s Spotify Family Account
Spotify offers multiple Premium plans, which includes:
- Individual,
- Family and
- Student.
Here, the Spotify Family plan allows over 6 Premium accounts at a much-discounted price of USD 14.99, which (if my math is correct) will be about USD 2.49 per account, whereas the Individual plan costs USD 9.99 for a month. That is really cheap.
Now, you have two possible options:
Scenario 1: You have to find just five friends or relatives who are interested in Spotify Premium, opt for Spotify Family plan, and link up all the accounts together. All six of you will be able to enjoy premium services at a real cheap price.
Scenario 2: You can find a friend who is already using the Spotify Family plan and ask him/her to let you be one of the six members.
Android: Install Spotify Premium mod cracked APK
For Android users, we have a modded Spotify cracked app, which lets you enjoy all the premium features without paying a cent (some server-specific features may not work).
All you have to do is install Spotify Premium mod apk on your Android phone/tablet device and log in using your free Spotify account. You will have all the premium services unlocked like unlimited skips, extreme quality enabled, ad-free, and uninterrupted music listening experience.
Here is how you can do this on your Android:
- Uninstall the original Spotify app from your device, if already installed.
- Download a modified Spotify version using this link.
- The apk file will be in a compressed zip format, so you will have to use a file explorer to extract/unzip the file.
- Install the app. If this is your first time installing apk, then you may need to allow installation from unknown sources.
- Open the app, enter your account credentials, and tap on login.
DISCLAIMER: We at BestForAndroid won’t be held responsible if Spotify terminates/suspends your account due to the usage of the Spotify Premium mod app. All information provided here is strictly for educational purposes, and we are not responsible for how you decide to use the provided information.
iOS/iPhone Method 1: Install Spotify++ using AppValley or TweakApp
Installing Spotify++ on your iPhone is one of the most effective ways to enjoy Spotify Premium free for iOS. That can be achieved using installer services like TweakApp or AppValley.
You don’t have to worry as these are safe, and you don’t need to jailbreak your iPhone or iPad.
Here are the steps to follow:
- Uninstall any existing version of Spotify.
- Launch Safari web browser and go to the site of any of the following app installer service:AppValley: AppValley.vipTweakApp: tweakboxapp.com
- Install any of the installers mentioned above on your iPhone.
- Go to the home screen and tap on either AppValley or TweakApp (depending on what you installed).
- Open the app, use search to find Spotify++ or Spotify.
- Once installed, you can now start enjoying Spotify Premium on iPhone.
iOS/iPhone Method 2: Install Spotify++ using Cydia Impactor
Similar to the previous method, here we will guide you on how to install Spotify++ using Cydia Impactor on iPhone or any iOS device. But this requires Mac or Windows PC to work.
- On your Mac or PC, launch the web browser of your choice and go to the following website:Cydia Impactor: cydiaimpactor.com
- Based on your operating system, select the correct version of the installation file and download it on your computer.
- The downloaded file will be in a zip/compressed format. You will need to unzip to get the setup. Then install it on your computer.
- Connect your iPhone to your PC via USB cable.
- Download Spotify++ mod ipa file for iPhone or Spotify++ apk for Android from the Internet.
- Open Cydia Impactor, select and drag the iOS ipa file (or Android apk file), and drop it onto the Cydia app.
- The app should appear on your iPhone. Tap on it to open and enjoy Spotify Premium.
Mac OS/Windows PC: Use Hosts File to Block Ads
This method is for Mac OS and Windows PC, and here we will be using the hosts file to get Spotify Premium for free and enjoy features like ad-free music listening and unlimited skips. Originally, the free version limits you to skip only six songs per hour.
For Mac OS: Follow these steps to get Spotify Premium on MacBook, MacBook Pro, Mac Mini, iMac running any version of Mac OS:
- Open Terminal app and type the following command to open “hosts” file:
sudo nano /etc/hosts
- Copy and paste the following lines directly after the last line in the hosts:
0.0.0.0 adclick.g.doublecklick.net 0.0.0.0 adeventtracker.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 ads-fa.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 analytics.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 audio2.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 b.scorecardresearch.com 0.0.0.0 bounceexchange.com 0.0.0.0 bs.serving-sys.com 0.0.0.0 content.bitsontherun.com 0.0.0.0 core.insightexpressai.com 0.0.0.0 crashdump.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 d2gi7ultltnc2u.cloudfront.net 0.0.0.0 d3rt1990lpmkn.cloudfront.net 0.0.0.0 desktop.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 doubleclick.net 0.0.0.0 ds.serving-sys.com 0.0.0.0 googleadservices.com 0.0.0.0 googleads.g.doubleclick.net 0.0.0.0 gtssl2-ocsp.geotrust.com 0.0.0.0 js.moatads.com 0.0.0.0 log.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 media-match.com 0.0.0.0 omaze.com 0.0.0.0 pagead46.l.doubleclick.net 0.0.0.0 pagead2.googlesyndication.com 0.0.0.0 partner.googleadservices.com 0.0.0.0 pubads.g.doubleclick.net 0.0.0.0 redirector.gvt1.com 0.0.0.0 s0.2mdn.net 0.0.0.0 securepubads.g.doubleclick.net 0.0.0.0 spclient.wg.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 tpc.googlesyndication.com 0.0.0.0 v.jwpcdn.com 0.0.0.0 video-ad-stats.googlesyndication.com 0.0.0.0 weblb-wg.gslb.spotify.com 0.0.0.0 www.googleadservices.com 0.0.0.0 www.googletagservices.com 0.0.0.0 www.omaze.com
- Save the file by simultaneously pressing the Control key and O key on your keyboard.
- Exit the Terminal app using the Control key and X key.
- Open the Spotify app and enjoy interruption-free music.
For Windows: The following steps will work for any Windows PC and laptop to get Spotify Premium:
- On the keyboard, simultaneously press Windows key and R key, this will open Run.
- Copy and paste the following command, and press OK:
%SYSTEMROOT%\System32\drivers\etc\
- A folder named “
etc ” will open; copy the “hosts” file to your desktop.
- Open this newly copied “hosts” file using Notepad.
- Copy and paste the following lines directly after the last line in the hosts:
0.0.0.0 adclick.g.doublecklick.net
0.0.0.0 adeventtracker.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 ads-fa.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 analytics.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 audio2.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 b.scorecardresearch.com
0.0.0.0 bounceexchange.com
0.0.0.0 bs.serving-sys.com
0.0.0.0 content.bitsontherun.com
0.0.0.0 core.insightexpressai.com
0.0.0.0 crashdump.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 d2gi7ultltnc2u.cloudfront.net
0.0.0.0 d3rt1990lpmkn.cloudfront.net
0.0.0.0 desktop.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 doubleclick.net
0.0.0.0 ds.serving-sys.com
0.0.0.0 googleadservices.com
0.0.0.0 googleads.g.doubleclick.net
0.0.0.0 gtssl2-ocsp.geotrust.com
0.0.0.0 js.moatads.com
0.0.0.0 log.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 media-match.com
0.0.0.0 omaze.com
0.0.0.0 pagead46.l.doubleclick.net
0.0.0.0 pagead2.googlesyndication.com
0.0.0.0 partner.googleadservices.com
0.0.0.0 pubads.g.doubleclick.net
0.0.0.0 redirector.gvt1.com
0.0.0.0 s0.2mdn.net
0.0.0.0 securepubads.g.doubleclick.net
0.0.0.0 spclient.wg.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 tpc.googlesyndication.com
0.0.0.0 v.jwpcdn.com
0.0.0.0 video-ad-stats.googlesyndication.com
0.0.0.0 weblb-wg.gslb.spotify.com
0.0.0.0 www.googleadservices.com
0.0.0.0 www.googletagservices.com
0.0.0.0 www.omaze.com
- Save the file and copy this edited hosts file from desktop to the “
\etc ” folder.
- Open the Spotify app and enjoy premium features.
Troubleshooting and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
We have created a dedicated FAQ and troubleshooting section to resolve your issue quickly.
In case your question is not answered here, or if you are experiencing an entirely different problem, please feel free to leave your comment in the comments section below, and we will help you out 🙂
Why does the Spotify app keep logging me out on Android?
Please follow these steps to fix this issue:
Also, we have reviewed some of the best free VPN apps for Android, which might help you bypass the Spotify country restriction.
- Go to Settings and tap on Apps.
- In the list of apps, look for Spotify and tap on it.
- Tap on Storage.
- Tap on the clear data and clear cache to reset Spotify (this is important; otherwise, the trick won’t work).
- Download the Browsec VPN app from the Google Play Store here and enable VPN (you can use ‘United States’ as your VPN location).
- Launch Spotify and log in using your credentials.
Why are Spotify songs downloading and offline listening not working?
Music downloading and offline listening is a server-side feature and is directly linked to your Spotify account, which can be either Freemium or Premium.
If you still want to download music, then you can use Deezer Premium. You can download and install this app from here, and it’s free. 😉
Why use a VPN app with Spotify?
VPN is necessary. But only for the first time. Once you are logged into the Spotify and got the premium features, then you can go ahead and disable VPN.
The VPN trick is used to bypass the country restriction and allows anyone from any part of the world to get Spotify Premium for free. If you don’t use a VPN, then there are chances you may not be able to login to Spotify.
Can’t log in to the Spotify app, getting error code auth:3.
You may be getting the following error message on Windows or Mac:
“A firewall may be blocking Spotify. Please update your firewall to allow Spotify. Additionally, you could try changing the currently used proxy settings. (Error code: auth:3)”
To resolve this, you need to temporarily delete the Spotify ads blocking lines added into your PC’s Hosts file. Then log in to your account. Once logged in, you can then add those ad-blocking lines back into the Hosts file.
Conclusion
Now that you have learned how to get Spotify Premium for free so don’t forget to share your views about the features you have used and which platform you are using to enjoy this incredible music streaming service.
Please note that this article is for informational and educational purposes only. We are not affiliated with any website or apps mentioned in the tutorial, and we will recommend respecting the copyright holder’s rights.
How come I cannot download songs and I don’t have unlimited skips and I cannot choose which song to play since it is in shuffle? I already downloaded the app but I cannot access the premium settings
Hi @jace_andrews:disqus, we have already mentioned in the article above that, “downloading and offline listening option is directly linked to your account so you won’t be able to download any music.”
Downloading feature is linked to your account and we cannot enable it with modded apk. As far as unlimited skips feature is concerned, it works flawlessly. I use it almost everyday.
Make sure you have uninstalled any previous version of Spotify from your phone before installing the modified apk provided here.
This doesn’t work for me, I don’t have unlimited skips nor download functionality.
Hi @Lodown77:disqus, unlimited skips works flawlessly in this modded Spotify premium apk. I have verified it. However, download functionality is linked to your Spotify account, which means if you are actually a premium user then downloading will be available else you cannot use this feature. Unfortunately, it is a server-side option.
We have already mentioned this in the article above.
how do I download the apk? theres nothing to press on to start the download? and also does this mod apk cause malware or viruses? or like cause random browser pages to launch? pls be honest, thank you 🙂
Download APK from this link. No, this is safe apk file. We have already tested before posting.
Are you sure. It works for most of the people.
Please try one more time now. We have just updated the Spotify Premium mod apk to latest version. You can download from this link. Once downloaded, follow the steps above to get Spotify Premium on Android for free. It should work.
Please try again now. We have just updated the Spotify Premium mod apk. You can download from here. Once downloaded, follow the steps above to get Spotify
Premium on Android for free. It will work. 🙂
Hi @hqtriviahackplugin:disqus, please try again as we have released an updated Spotify Premium mod apk. You can download from this link. Once downloaded, follow the steps mentioned above to get Spotify Premium free on Android.
And in case you are unable to login to Spotify Premium then you can follow our step by step guide mentioned here that will help you bypass Spotify country restriction and access Spotify Premium abroad.
Hi I was logged out of the app this morning and i havent been able to log back in since. I checked around and everyone seems to have the same issue. Apparently its because spotify update the app so any outdated on wont work. Can this be fixed
Spotify updated their system so we have to wait for next release of modded apk. We will update this page as soon as we got new mod. Don’t forget to bookmark this page.
thanks for the reply.
A quick fix has been found and we have updated our tutorial above with working method to help you get Spotify Premium for free on Android. Please follow all the steps and let me know if this works for you or not.
hello, have the new mod been released yet? i was just logged out and could not log in back then :((
I have the same issue
Works fine but received this email roughly a week later:
Dear user:
We detected abnormal activity on the app you are using so we have disabled it. Don’t worry – your Spotify account is safe.
To access your Spotify account, simply uninstall any unauthorized or modified version of Spotify and download and install the Spotify app from the official Google Play Store. If you need more help, please see our support article on Reinstalling Spotify.
Thank you for being a Spotify user.
Look like we have to wait for next release of modded apk.
do you know how long that will be
May be a week or a month at most.
How can I know there’s been an update?
Hi @disqus_o2oDo9SbAD:disqus, we have found a workaround for Spotify Premium and released an update. The tutorial above has been updated with latest method. Please follow all the steps and let us know if this new method works for you or not.
Didn’t work for me:(
Did not work
Try creating a new Spotify account and then perform same steps on it.
Let me know how it works..
Works
Every time I log in with a new account, it loads and then kicks me back out to the Spotify sign-in page.
Every time I log in with a new account, it loads and then kicks me back out to the Spotify sign-in page.
Same with me, i created a new email to make a new spotify account. I downloaded the latest apk and followed the tutorial step-by-step. When i tried to login to the spotify app it immediately kick me back to sign-in page
Hi @disqus_U6oUqNLrUn:disqus & @disqus_5a0l03VeGM:disqus, I will recommend both of you to follow the guide again. We have just updated it with a new working method. And don’t forget to uninstall previous Spotify apk and download the new modded Spotify Premium apk given in Step #2.
Don’t forget to update us with the status if it worked for you or not.
You guys are miracle workers! It works. Thank you so much (ﾉ◕ヮ◕)ﾉ*:･ﾟ✧
By the way, I got an email from Spotify trying to confirm my new account. Should I confirm it, or ignore it?
You can confirm it. No problem.
I created a new account and after i got on a second time it wouldn’t let me login
Did you download the Spotify Premium apk from the link given in Step#2? You need to uninstall previous version of Spotify.
Hi Justin! Two of our readers, in the comments, reported that they got it working by creating a new Spotify account rather than using an existing one.
Give that a try! It should work.
Yup! But for a little while. We have found a quick fix to bypass their new blocking system. 😉
It doesn’t work, the one you posted today does not work. Still says Unable to login.
Never mind!! Do everything just make a new account! It works for me now!!!! Thanks !!
Thanks for your suggestion Andre. Creating a new Spotify account worked for me too!!
That’s great! This will also keep your original account safe in case Spotify decides to impose any ban. 😀
Good to hear that, Andre. Enjoy premium for free while it lasts 😉
Worked For Me With An Existing Account But Do I have to Open the VPN Always when i want to play on Spotify
Good to hear that, @bineetrupakheti:disqus! To be on a safe side, I will recommend you to use VPN when using Spotify. This will keep your account safe. However, there is always a risk of getting your account banned as Spotify Team has been actively monitoring our every move. Your best bet is to create a disposable Spotify account to save yourself from losing personalized playlists.
Well Thanks For The Tip…
You’re welcome, @bineetrupakheti:disqus! 🙂
It says cannot contact sign up servers. i tried again than it said this email is taken. went to login section than it said user name or password is incorrect.
Hi @yobugabu:disqus, we have found out that there are some issues with the current modded Spotify Premium apk. Another working Spotify Premium apk will be up soon. Until then, please be patient.
@yobugabu:disqus, new fixed method is up now! Give it a try 😉
I made a new account and it worked yesterday but today I got logged out and I cannot log back in today
Hey @disqus_7XDYztLFVv:disqus, thanks again for updating about the issue. It was indeed working earlier. Anyways, we are looking into it and will release an update as soon as we discover another working method.
At the moment, it seems like there’s some issue with the Spotify apk itself. And according to our initial tests, the Singapore VPN bypass still works.
Please be patient, we will be back with an update soon.
Thank you sir. Yeah the singapore vpn doesn’t work for me anymore tho😢
You’re welcome, @disqus_7XDYztLFVv:disqus! We have updated the guide as well as new APK, we will recommend you to try again from the beginning and don’t forget to download apk given in Step #2.
That works for now thanks!
Great news! Enjoy free music while it lasts 😉
Maybe I have the wrong apk downloaded
Same as here. I think vpn singapore is working but you have to create a new account over and over again. Created 2 dummy accounts and logged me back out.
@disqus_BpDHVZ50IH:disqus, we were aware about the issue and has released an update. Please try to follow the tutorial again.
I’ve tried it again, I’ve also downloaded the new apk too on step 2. I’ll check with you what will happen after a day 😀 it’s working again and hopefully will work for quite a bit. 🤞
doesn’t work anymore keeps kicking me out…
With new method?
Try again. It will work now! 🙂
When will the new fixed Spotify apk come out?
No idea, but we have got a new trick that currently works. Check it out.
@disqus_ogwvLwzxcu:disqus a fixed Spotify apk is up now. Follow the guide again from the beginning and let me know if it works for you or not.
Mohammad thanks for all the hard work! I appreciate it 🙂
You’re welcome, @disqus_ogwvLwzxcu:disqus! 🙂
Hi i’m from philippines, why the premium spotify doesn’t work for me I follow all the instructions that you gave but why it doesn’t work ?
It’s not working anymore.. You can create new account and login but after 1 day It’ll kick you out again.
Working for us. What happened after one day?
It kicked me out 😢
Hey @disqus_BpDHVZ50IH:disqus, we have updated the post with a new method. Give
it a try and let us know if it works for you or not.
I’ve tried it again, I’ve also downloaded the new apk too on step 2. I’ll check with you what will happen after a day 😀 it’s working again and hopefully will work for quite a bit.
Glad you got it working! 🙂
Yaaaay! ❤️ Still working hahahaha.😅 thank you, lovelots! 😄
Haha, awesome!! Thanks for updating us! 😄
It’s logged out again and not working.. 😭🤦
It says when you follow the steps again that it cannot login you to the sign up servers..
Hey @Aienma01:disqus, there were some issues with that version. We have updated the post with newer Spotify Premium app. You should give it a try. Also, it works with previous accounts too! 😉
Realllly?? So i just need to download the new apk? Yaaaaaaaay. 😄
Tried it aaand one of my old accounts let me in so YAY 🙌 ❤️ thank you for your endless supports and updates 😭❤️
Still working ❤️ thank you so much 😊
Not working anymore again.. 😢 just now, i’m playing it and it logged me back out.. 💔
I’ve tried it again, I’ve also downloaded the new apk too on step 2. I’ll check with you what will happen after a day 😀 it’s working again and hopefully will work for quite a bit. 😀
Create account on PC and then login on phone.
Have you followed the updated procedure?
Ryan, the method you followed has stopped working, maybe it was fixed by Spotify. We have now updated the post again with a new method, give it a try and let us know if it worked for you or not.
Hi Andre, try following the tutorial again from the Step #1. We have just updated the article with a new method.
Hailee, try to follow the guide again. We have just updated it with a new working method that doesn’t require you to change the country. But you need to use VPN to sign up for a new account.
Thank you very much! I can be able to run Spotify again with these steps. Thank you!
Good to hear that! 🙂
It works. You have to make a new account. The downside is that it’s the older version of spotify. But that doesn’t matter because this is all free! I just hope it lasts long!
Thanks for letting us know! 🙂
No, you can uninstall VPN app once you have got the Spotify Premium apk working. Currently, it works fine without VPN.
Works fine with the old apk in tutorial but its very old so it doesnt support the “singles” so i cant find most of the stuff i was listening to unless i know the name of it. could be better if we got a “one up” to the next version there was.(not the newest one)
We will look for the later version with mod support.
Try following the steps again from the beginning, we have updated the method with a working solution along with a newly modded Spotify Premium apk. It will work now.
Works perfectly!
Thanks
You’re welcome, @disqus_yUcfj2o5bK:disqus! Enjoy Spotify Premium features for free while it lasts… 😉
Thanks for your effort, Mohammad. Do I have to remain connected to the VPN when I’m already using Spotify?
You’re welcome, John.
No, once your account is successfully created and you are able to play music then you can even remove the VPN app from your phone.
Hey. Thanks for the good work. When I try to sign up whit VPN, this happens: “We can’t conttact whith the servers”
You’re welcome, Eduardo!
Seems like you are using another version of Spotify app. You need to download the version of Spotify Premium apk we have provided in Step #2 above and then follow the remaining steps. It should work.
No, I was usinagem the Spotify Premium APK, but anyway, I reloaded again the app and tried onde more time, and It worked!
Thanks for answer me 🙂
Glad you got it working 🙂
Getting error “Unable to connect to sign up servers. 😔
You need to download the Spotify Premium app we have provided in Step #2 above. This method works on that specific apk only. Give it a try!
can I still use spotify after I delete BROWSEC??
Yes, Browsec VPN is just for the Spotify Premium signup process.
it worked for me,thanks alot! but can i still use spotify after i delete BROWSEC??
Absolutely. Once activated, Spotify Premium works without VPN.
Thanks man, it really works!
Doesn’t work, created new account, used vpn in singapore didn’t get the update popup and is just s free account not premium
Hey @antcanova:disqus, seems like you didn’t follow the steps correctly.
You must need to uninstall any previous version of Spotify app installed on your device. And download Spotify Premium apk provided in Step #2 above. This Spotify Premium bypass trick worked for all of our readers. It should work for you too.
Give it another go and let me know if it works for you or not.
I’ve tried it twice now, I’ve downloaded the apk zip from the site, removed spotify from phone, installed spotify apk from file, using pia vpn set to singapore and clicked signup and used a fresh email and poassword all I get when click enter, is a popup with spotify mod modded by bestforandroid etc etc, go into spotify and in top left of screen at bottom it says go premium try 7 days free. Never had the new version available update popup. Going to give up now can’t keep creating new accounts and email addresses
My friend, I guess you are using Spotify for the very first time.
Believe it or not, you have already got the Spotify Premium working on your phone. That “Go Premium try 7 days free” message you are talking about is meant to appear because you actually have a free Spotify account. However, most of the Spotify Premium features will work as this is a modded app.
Do one thing, search for any playlist in Spotify, play any music from that list, and then try to skip the tracks. If Spotify allows you to do that then it means you have a Premium. Remember, free version do not allow you to skip music tracks.
I hope now you understand how Spotify Premium works.
Ok thanks, yes I am new to spotify, It’s not full premium though is it? As you can’t download the tracks to play offline, which was kind of the reason to get spotify in the first place, as will be linking phone via android auto to play in the car
You’re right. Download feature is premium and linked directly to your Spotify account. It is server side and cannot be hacked. We have already mentioned this in the article above.
If you have an active data connection on your Android phone then this will work for you.
Guaranteed working! Thanks man!
Great, thanks for letting us know!
Can we delete browsec after succesfully installed and log in?
Yes, sure you can!
Not working for me, says cannot connect to sign up servers
It seems like you are NOT using the version of Spotify Premium we have provided in Step #2 above, which is the reason why you are experiencing issues with Sign Up.
Please uninstall any existing version of Spotify app from your phone and then download and install the modded Spotify Premium apk from the link given in Step #2. Then follow the rest of the steps. It will work! 🙂
Installed the spotify apk, but when I tried to open it in my downloads it said “can’t find app to open this file.” Not too sure what to do now. :/ (My phone is a ZTE Zmaxpro, idk if that had to do with this or not)
The apk file is in compressed zip format. Usually Android has native support for compressed files.
Anyways, to open the file, download any file manager app and then browse to the downloads folder. You will now be able to install Spotify app.
Is there otherway to download music and play offline mode:(
Nope. Downloading and Offline playback are Spotify Premium features that cannot be hacked because these are server-side and directly linked to your account.
If you want to download music and listen music offline then we will suggest you to pay for Spotify Premium. That is the only way to enjoy those 2 features.
Hey Erika, link for Spotify Premium apk is in Step #2 above. Or, you can click here to go to Spotify Premium apk download page.
Music downloading feature cannot be hacked as it is a server-side feature and directly linked to your Spotify account.
Other Premium features like music seeking, unlimited skips, ad-blocking work though!
hi tried it and works fine! 🙂 just to ask, mine doesnt have the lower part showing your library, radio eg… instead they are shown when dragged from the side… anyone’s else similar?
Yes. That’s how it looks like. Because Spotify Premium is currently working on old Spotify app only.
Worked for a week but again got logged out and can’t log back in. Thank you to everyone who is constantly working and giving updates on the matter.
Yup same thing happened to me
Agreed! This was a miracle worker for a good week or 2 but it just logged me out and I even made a new account and reinstalled it. Any suggestions?
New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
You’re the best!
Hi @jasonnormandin:disqus, new mod is up now! 😉
Hey @disqus_7XDYztLFVv:disqus, please recheck the tutorial above. New Spotify Premium modded app has been updated.
Hi @disqus_o2oDo9SbAD:disqus! New and updated Spotify Premium mod is now available. Please check the tutorial again for updates 😉
HELP IT’S NOT WORKING ANYMORE. GUYS WHAT NOW 😩
Hi Camil, New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
Hello @camiltoewhoran:disqus, new working method has been released. Check now.
Does not work anymore it keeps kicking me out 😔
Hi Andre, New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
@disqus_ogwvLwzxcu:disqus new Spotify Premium is up now. Content has been updated to reflect the changes. Try again to avail Spotify Premium music streaming services.
Welp, its dead again. after maybe a
week of working the app wont let you sign in nor create a new account (auto bans it) and so there is no way around it.
I dont think this will be easy to get it working again but i hope you can do your best!
Hi Master, New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
Hi @mastertm:disqus, thanks for updating us about the issue. New Spotify Premium has been updated. Please try to follow the guide again.
many thanks for your time and explanations . I have not try your new method, two questions: 1- does it work with any VPN app? 2- if we make a new account how we can have our previous playlist. we have hundreds of songs in our previous account by making the new one we lose all of them and it is impossible to add them one by one it takes ages. can you please guide me. regards.
Hi Navid, New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
Don’t worry, @navidtaghavi:disqus. New Spotify Premium apk is available now which will let you use your existing Spotify Premium account without any issue. Now you won’t need to waste any time on creating new playlists.
Don’t worry, @navidtaghavi:disqus! New Spotify Premium apk is available now which will let you use your existing Spotify Premium account without any issue. Now you won’t need to waste any time on creating new playlists.
Hey, you guys? Did anybody get kicked out of their Spotify accounts and app again? The modded APK and method of getting premium Spotify worked for a while for me, but then when I logged back into the app yesterday, the app gave me the sign-in screen. I tried the current account I was using, but no success. I then made a new account. No success either. Finally, I uninstalled the app and repeated the whole process on this web-page, but that didn’t work either. Is this just me?
New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
@disqus_U6oUqNLrUn:disqus we were aware about the issue and has updated this post with an updated information and Spotify Premium apk. Please try once more. It even works with your existing account.
It works! And I can log in with my old account now. A million thanks for your hard work~
New working mod is ready for you guys. Will be adding soon. Stay Tuned.
Hi Mrbrow, New working mod is ready. Will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
Its not working anymore but don’t worry. New working mod is ready & will be added soon. Stay Tuned.
Can’t use anymore T.T
@b_boy_ichigo:disqus try again now. It will work. New fixed version is up! 😉
Thanks you so much !
Hey Joe, new working Spotify Premium mod is now available. Try to follow the steps again!
Hi Ryan, there were some issues with the existing version. We have updated the post with newer Spotify Premium mod. Try again now 🙂
Try to follow the steps again, it works now with the latest Spotify modded apk.
Help i can’t even install the apk…. Please help.
Hi @Authumnder:disqus, we have just updated this tutorial with a latest working Spotify Premium mod apk. I will recommend you to try again!
Works
Why the VPN thing I never had to do that is it necessary?
Yup, you have to mock country.
How long does it last?
@demiladeakintan:disqus don’t know. It’s still working for me. In case Spotify kicks you out
then you can use United States/Singapore VPN as a bypass to sign in to your account and continue enjoying
Spotify Premium.
Don’t know, but its working for many people.
Doesn’t work anymore again, was using the app and it kicked me out again. 😥😭
Thanks for notifying. We will look into that & try to find a better solution.
Does not work anymore
Updated Spotify Premium apk uploaded. It works now.
Please download it from here and then follow the above tutorial.
i think they got on it again (at the the one im using for the past 2 weeks or so) dont think there was an update. i cant do anything let alone play music. always says “premium feature” even on shuffle and all songs are unavaiable for me.
EDIT: after few retries the app decided to boot itself offline (always says no internet connection even if there is one)
Hey @mastertm:disqus. I will recommend you to give the above tutorial a retry. I have uploaded newer version of Spotify Premium apk.
If it still doesn’t work for you then let me know…
WORKS. Nit sure hiw long, tho.
Missing feature! Loud volume not appears in options. How can I boost it?
Hey @irevolutioneu:disqus, are you talking about extreme quality streaming feature? It is under Settings -> Music Quality section. You will see a drop down menu there.
Nope, I was talking about a “Volume Level:” “Silent/Normal/Loud” option (or very similar that I just had on the offical version of spotify like when I wrote the message.
It’s still up and working, no warning mail yet 🙂
In Spain works without VPN (For now)
Thank you boss
Thanks for info.
Yes, you can. Download the apk file and install it on your phone.
Hey.. The logo of Spotify is of different color.. Is it really genuine?
Yup, it’s genuine but old version.
Hey Alex, new Spotify Premium version has been uploaded. Give that a try! 🙂
Nice it doesn’t work at all
Yup! Downloading will never be supported. You need to pay for Spotify Premium to enjoy this feature. Other features work though…
when i login it says premium activated but when i go to download a song it asks me to start free trial
EDIT: nevermind lol
Haha! Enjoy Spotify Premium 😉
Doesn’t work
Still doesn’t work loveys. Can’t log in as it always kick me out. 😫😖😭
Hey @Aienma01:disqus, the guide still works. I have updated the APK too.
Just repeat the steps mentioned in the guide. Also, I will suggest you to try United States VPN instead of Singapore VPN.
Let me know if it works for you or not.
awesome, thanks alot it simple and it works 🙂 🙂
Thanks for letting us know! 🙂
Is it necessary to run BrowseSec/VPN and have it Connected to Singapore? I tried Connecting it to United States, and I have also turned off BrowseSec app on Android. The Spotify Premium still works (4/14/18) without BrowseSec.
Not necessary. United States works too now. The tutorial has been updated with this information.
Also, you need to use Browsec in the beginning phase only. And in case Spotify logs you out in future then you will need to use Browsec to activate Spotify Premium.
Stuck with this still for my third installation.
Hi @anamaerabago:disqus, it seems like you are trying Spotify for the first time and you didn’t understand how Spotify and Spotify Premium works.
Let me explain it to you…
The link to Spotify apk provided in this article is for a modified version that will let you enjoy almost all the Spotify Premium features without going premium or without even starting a trial period.
All you really need to do is follow the instructions provided in the article above and once you are logged in to your Spotify account you should be able to use all the premium features for free.
For example, the free version of Spotify will NEVER allow you to skip songs OR play the music of your choice from the playlist. If you are able to perform these tasks then you are on Spotify Premium!
I hope this explains how Spotify Premium works for free. If you have any questions or confusion then feel free to ask. 🙂
Hi James, please try again. The Spotify Premium works now. We have updated the guide as well as Spotify Premium apk.
It just started my 7 day free trial, will I be able to use after it?
Hi @disqus_d0UaOWbv99:disqus, you don’t really need to start free trial. All the Spotify Premium features works without starting the trial period. Though if you are looking for a way to listen to Spotify music offline then unfortunately that won’t be possible with this modded apk and you will need to opt for Spotify Premium and actually pay for this feature.
Apart from that, almost all the Spotify Premium features works perfectly with the provided Spotify apk!
I followed the steps but premium only worked for the trial period? Does it require browsec everytime I go online?
Hey @anamaerabago:disqus, if you followed all the steps correctly then you should be able to enjoy all the Spotify Premium features on your free account. And Browsec VPN is only required when you are logging in to Spotify for the first time.
My account automatically signs out and when I put in my info it doesn’t log in.
If I try making a new account it brings a pop up saying ‘internet connection needed’ and it’s connected to the internet.
Please Help …
Hi @rosannemendonca:disqus! Here’s what you need to do:
1. On your Android, go to ‘Settings’ -> ‘Apps’ and in the list of installed apps look for Spotify and tap on it.
2. Now tap on ‘Clear Data’ button.
3. Open Browsec VPN app (install it if you haven’t already) and use United States as location.
4. Open Spotify and log in using your credentials.
It should work. Let me know how it goes..
it doesn’t work for me.. I did every single thing
Hey, @disqus_ZTWVya6ULs:disqus! It still works for me. I just tried 🙂
What’s the error you are experiencing? Could you please share more details as it will help me in finding out why it isn’t working for you.
Wow! It worked, was able to enjoy premium features. I’ve tested other mods and procedures but they all failed somehow. Thank you for your work, I followed exactly the steps and voila I am now downloading albums for offline play. Thanks again, your work is really appreciated.
Hey Grifter, good to know that you got it working! 🙂
Hey, this sometimes happens with Spotify. Fix for this is really simple. Follow these steps:
1. On your Android, go to Settings -> Apps and in the list of installed apps look for Spotify and tap on it.
2. Now tap on Clear Data button.
3. Open Browsec VPN app (install it if you haven’t already) and use United States as location.
4. Open Spotify and log in using your credentials.
It will work now.
It worked!! Yaay I’m so happy, thanks guys! Quick question tho, do I have to leave the VPN running when I am not using Spotify or can I turn it off and then back on when I need to???
You are welcome, @ariel_washington:disqus! 🙂
Yes. You can do that. Also, VPN is not necessary once you got the Spotify Premium working.
I just followed thw steps. Until I logged in and start to listen a song, something popped out that said “Go Premium”. I clicked on it, something was processed then “You have 7 days free trial”. Is that necessary? Or I failed the steps. Like after 7 days, I need to buy and pay for premium??.
Hey @hoodybae:disqus, starting that 7-days free trial wasn’t required. The Spotify Premium apk will let you enjoy all the premium features without any problem. Though your Spotify account is still ‘free’ which is the reason why you saw that popup for Go Premium.
I don’t think you need to pay for premium. 7-days are just for trial to let you test run all the premium features. Paying or not paying is completely your choice and Spotify Free will work once 7-days trial is over.
If you have any question then feel free to ask 🙂
Hi Carmela, you didn’t have to start that 7-days free trial. The Spotify Premium apk we have provided will let you use all the premium features without starting trial.
I followed all the steps but when I try to create a account it says I need to connect to wifi even though I am.
thanks for this tutorial but I dont understand something…You said that after I get the Spotify to work I will no longer need for the vpn to be running in the background…is that correct?
after installing, everything works. But I did get an email asking to confirm my account. Should I click the confirmation, or is it best not to?
Thank you for all the hard work.
I have installed and everything works fine. I did receive an email asking to confirm my account. should I click on the confirmation link or is it best not to?
Thank you for all the hard work
I logged in with a previous non premium account in this modded apk, and imI getting every premium feature, fine! But I’m not getting the daily playlists spotify used to make for me based on what artists I followed! This SUCKS!!
Sorry for that but currently we don’t have any other option.
thanks for all the hard work!
But download is not working
Are you askign about Music download feature?
Yep working like a charm for me Thankyou 😁
Thanks
Thanks it worked like a Charm
Isn’t it free trial ?
Do we have to always turn on browsec before using spotify?
Nope, only before login.
is it still working???
Yup
I cant download why?
It shows that I need to pay premium
Music Download feature is server side so it can’t be manipulated.
The only way to listen offline is by recording the music using built-in recorder and then listening to it later or you have to pay.
Awesome, thank you so much! This is incredible!
Sometime down the road when I get a new device, will I be able to transfer this same account to that device? Or will I have to do this again and lose playlists and things?
Thanks again!
Hey @chrisfosnot:disqus, all your playlists and favorites are stored in your Spotify account. You should be able to login using the same account on multiple devices and it will be synced everywhere. 😉
You’re welcome! Hope you are enjoying free music.
is the streams are counted here? and the name where it is randomly typed can be change?
Yes, it will work.
works really great except that i cant download the music/playlist.. then its asking me to upgrade to premium besides that everything is perfect no ads and i can skip songs how much i want and when i want
It tells me to get Premium when I try and download the songs but everything else works fine. Does any one know how to fix this? The equalizer also is not available so I think this may be an outdated version of Spotify?
Did you try again, @disqus_ZSvFuXAiOp:disqus? Equalizer feature is working for me.
thanks to the devs!
It’s work but one question, possible to play it offline or just the free Skips and ads free is the cover of this APK? Thanks by the way.
Offline won’t work because that feature is directly linked to your account. You need a Premium account for that.
Nope.
It appaently all worked well for me 😀 thank you, I’ve been searching for this tutorial for a long time ago… but I still want to know: what’s about the download option? will I still listen to my music when I’m offline ? thanks again 🙂
You’re most welcome, @chbcoff:disqus! 🙂
Offline/Download won’t work because that is a server-side feature and linked directly to your account. To enjoy downloading you must need to have a Premium Spotify account.
Just wondering, do you have to keep the VPN on during the whole time that you’re listening to the spotify app, or once you’ve downloaded the premium version, can you uninstall the VPN?
You just need to use VPN when you login. It will work without VPN the next time.
Mohammad thnx man!
Is there anyway to stream the music from this app to a Wi-Fi speaker?
I can’t se;ect another device 🙁
You can use Bluetooth pairing.
thanks, i just got the spotify version with all features except the lyrics 🙂
Thank you very much
Dude…. thanks…. so much
Hi! Thanks for your work! Seems to work for me for skipping songs all I want, so thanks! 😀
There is one thing not working (maybe you are aware of it): the songs that are grayed-out and not playable with a free account, are not even shown when using your premium approach. Can you confirm this, or is it only on my side?
Sorry, just realized there is a “Show unplayable songs” option that was disabled. So the disabled songs are showing, but unplayable tho 🙂
Anyway, great work!
Glad you figured that out by yourself, @crisblg:disqus. Enjoy free music.
Thanks! 🙂
Why will it not install on a Huawei view 10?
What’s the error you are experiencing? Please share more info so that I can help you further.
Hussain saab, one question. Spotify mod is working flawlessly. BUT Google Assistant will tell me “choosing songs is only allowed for premium members” when I ask it to play a specific song on Spotify. Then it will play a random playlist “inspired” by the song I requested. I tried unlinking and re-linking my Spotify credentials from the Google Home app but it will still do this. Any way to get it to play nice with spotify on the phone?
Obviously, it won’t work with Google Assistant because it checks with the Spotify servers if you are actually a Premium user or Free user. However, in this case, you are using a mere trick to enable few Premium features. Your Spotify account is still Free. To verify if you are Premium or Free user, try downloading a song, Spotify won’t let you.
Unfortunately, there’s no workaround for that!
I don’t get it, at first I could download songs and listen to them without wifi and now suddenly it doesn’t work is there some way to get it back or what?
It happens sometimes. Try clearing Spotify app data by going to App Info on your Android device. Then enable Browsec VPN and then try to login. You should be able to use Spotify now.
Once you are successfully logged in then you can disable VPN.
Hey for me tried all of the options still cant download any songs 🙁
This trick will not enable downloading option because that’s a server-side thing and cannot be hacked. So you can’t use offline listening mode. Other features work fine though!
For those having trouble logging back in, here’s what worked for me:
– click “having trouble logging in” and enter your email
– you should receive an email with your username
– log in with username and not with email address
In order to log in with email again, do the following:
– log into your Spotify account on a browser
– update your location to USA
– you can now log in to the app with your email address and without using a vpn
You saved my life thx
Glad it worked for you, @fionaerves:disqus!
Hey @disqus_mOGtAruuEf:disqus, glad you found a workaround and shared with the fellow Android users 😀
However, there’s a much simpler approach to the problem where you are having trouble logging back in:
1. Clear Spotify app data.
2. Open Browsec and enable VPN.
3. Open Spotify and login using your credentials.
4. Once successfully logged in, disable VPN.
5. Enjoy Spotify Premium without VPN 😉
That’s how simple it is. Give it a try and let me know.
And thanks for stopping by and sharing what worked for you! 🙂
Hi, I can’t update my location to USA there’s no other option but the country where I lived in which is Philippines. Im having the unable to login/either username or password is incorrect.
Hi @janeruis:disqus, you don’t need to update your location to USA. All you need to do is first clear the Spotify app data and cache. And then enable Spotify VPN, then enter your login username and password and tap on Login.
It should work and you will be logged into your Spotify account.
In case you are still unable to login then please let me know. I will help you out! 🙂
Pls help I can’t log in
Hello, i have a question if you don’t mind.
You know artist fanbases use spotify for stream purposes and we were thinking using this but we’d like to be sure that our streams will count as “premium”. Do you happen to have any idea about this? Because this VPN accounts seems to only have some Premium features, not all of them.
Thanks for in advance.
Hi @yumiy:disqus! Hope you are having a great day..
Nope. I don’t think any of the stream with the above method would count as premium because this is just a workaround to let you enjoy few Spotify premium features. This method never changes your account status. In front of Spotify, you still have a free account.
I hope this answers your question 🙂
Hello again, thanks for the quick reply!
Ah, i see. It’s a shame but nonetheless thanks for your all efforts!!
Please have a great day~
Now I can’t accessed…why?
Is not working anymore…what should I do?
Hi @fionaerves:disqus, what’s not working?
In case you are automatically logged out of Spotify app then all you need to do is, on your Android phone, clear app data of Spotify app then enable Browsec VPN, open Spotify, and login using your credentials.
Once you are successfully logged in, then disable VPN. Now you can enjoy Spotify Premium for free without VPN 😉
So just to clarify, with the updated version, if i login with my already existing account i wont be detected and banned? :0
Yes @bluwn:disqus. It will let you login. But you must need to use the method given in the blog post above 🙂
You need to have root access on your phone to delete system apps. If you are a novice user and don’t know anything about rooting then I will recommend you to first search on the Internet about all the pros and cons of rooting Android device. Once you are knowledgeable enough only then proceed.
If you need any help then feel free to ask here or on our official forum here.
Very helpful. Thank u very much
Now I’m not able to log in 🙁 already tried clearing the app data, uninstalled and installed the latest version provided on this site, browsec installed and nothing. Is there a new workaround?
Hey is there any way to make it so I can download music? I used to be able to using this apk download but apparently not now?
hi! itt didnt worked
itt says that try the premium
Why does the vpn need to be used? What happens if we don’t?
Its required for people signing in outside of spotify covered territory.
So I downloaded using VPN, its connected and everything, I even created a new account but I still cant download my music?
I used to be able to download it but then I opened an app while playing my music and the app forced stopped my music and when I opened Spotify again all my music was ‘undownloaded’ and i couldnt redownload it.
I wasnt using a VPN then. What changed?
Hi @disqus_gNM6ggLk50:disqus Download is server side feature and you can’t get it via cracked apps. This app only provides features like ad blocking and unlimited skips.
Yeah I understand that now but it was will weird that I was able to download music before??
Also, I got a random ‘watch this for 30 mins ad free songs!’ ad despite using this apk. For now theres still no ads but that was weird + my songs took longer to play than usual when it happened. Could it be a glitch?
Thanks. I got my spotify premium. Can i uninstall the VPN app thingy? Or do i still need it?
You can uninstall it but you will need VPN to login in next time.
At me Spotify is pre-intalled app. I can just disable it make passive, but not delete. So this don’t works for me.
You can try removing pre installed app via rooting method and then use this app.
Thank god i finally found something that worked. Thank you so much.. i appreciate so muc your work and thank you for this. 👏💗 But to be honest i wish we could download music too but we cant have everying, can we?;)
Hey @disqus_c2DdgGcfVh:disqus, thank you so much for the appreciation 🙂 Download is a server side feature and requires premium Spotify account.
Good day bro , it works very well thank you so much , but is there anyway i can download the songs ?
Hi @disqus_b0lSxxg5Zd:disqus, unfortunately downloading is not supported on this modded Spotify app. But you are free to enjoy other premium features like unlimited skips for free 😉
What the problem you are getting?
Yes, you can.
My spotify logged me out (no idea why, it happened when I wasnt on the app) and now I cant log back in. The button just goes from logging in… to login straight away. How??
Hey @disqus_gNM6ggLk50:disqus, that usually happens with this modded Spotify app. All you need to do is the following and it will work afterwards:
1. Clear Spotify app data on your Android.
2. Open Browsec and enable VPN.
3. Open Spotify and login using your credentials.
4. Once successfully logged in, disable VPN.
5. Enjoy Spotify Premium without VPN. 😉
Let me know how it works for you.
There’s a new update for spotify how do I get the modded apk for that?
Hi @sebastiankilmer:disqus, please tell me the version number and I will get a modded apk for that specific version for you 🙂
Seems to work fine, only thing: Android Auto does not see the app, probably because it’s not legit anymore. So sadly it’s useless for me 🙁
Anyway, is still work?
Yes, still working fine!
I don’t know what else should I do, I followed it, but I always get the error Unable to login. Either username or password is incorrect. I get the same error either I sign up or log in. Please help….
Hi @janeruis:disqus, please try clearing your Spotify app data and cache. And then give it another try. It will work for sure! 😉
Hi, I’ve already done that actually but still get the same error. Anyway, this updated mod doesn’t seem to work on my device, good thing I still have a copy of the previous one, last march, I’ve installed that and still works perfectly fine.
Hi @janeruis:disqus, glad you still had a working version. Though I just reuploaded a Spotify Premium modded apk and I thought I should let you know that it should work on your device too. The issue has been fixed and you can download the apk from here 🙂
I can’t log in nor can I sign up by fb.
Btw I already had a Spotify account before
Use your exisitng Spotify account. But please clear Spotify data and cache from the Android app settings first before giving it another try. Also, use Browsec VPN while logging in for the first time.
Do I have to create a new account?
No, your existing account will work too! 🙂
I mean can I use my non-moded account
Yes. You can use your non-modded and free Spotify account with this Spotify Premium app 🙂
I just created a new account but I can’t log in
Sorry but I think this app doesn’t work anymore
same with me. no matter what combination, account or strategy I used, it just doesn’t work
Hi @disqus_pJKT6OE4um:disqus, could you please try clearing the data and cache of Spotify app and then give it another try. It should work after that!
Let me know how it goes.
Already did that as well as everything covered in this article and comments section.
No dice.
Hi @disqus_pJKT6OE4um:disqus, thanks for the update! I checked the APK and found an issue somewhere in the file. I have fixed the issue and reuploaded the new Spotify apk file.
Please uninstall the current Spotify app from your Android phone and download the new APK from here or from the link given in the “Step 2” above. It should work now.
nope, still not working.
I cleared cache and data, uninstalled. reinstalled your apk, ran Browsec, tried signing in with my facebook account and the screen just swipes and comes back to sign in options.
Hi @disqus_pJKT6OE4um:disqus, glad to hear that you finally managed to log into your Spotify account.
As already mentioned in the blog post as well as in other comments, this Spotify mod apk will never let you download music because that’s a premium feature and requires you to have a paid Spotify account. Also, downloading feature is directly linked to your Spotify account and it is a server-side feature.
And of course, you are going to see the upgrade to premium notification because your account is still free. This Spotify Premium mod apk will let you enjoy other premium features like unlimited skips, ability to select music manually from the album, high quality music listening, blocked advertisements.
I hope you understand how this app works now! And please don’t forget to share this with your friends 🙂
If u find a solution please let me know
I created 2 Google account just to use this app but I’m getting signup and login error
Hi @bamangtachung:disqus, the app is still working fine for me. Could you please try clearing the data and cache of Spotify app and then give it another try.
Let me know if it works for you or not.
I have tried that many times
Hi @bamangtachung:disqus, thanks for the heads-up. Seems like there was some issue with the Spotify apk. I have fixed the issue and reuploaded the Spotify Premium apk.
Please uninstall the current version of Spotify from your Android device
and download the updated version from the link given above, and then give it a try. It should work now. 🙂
Hi Mihai, please uninstall the currently installed Spotify apk from your Android device and download the latest Spotify Premium apk from here. And then try to sign up or sign in using your existing Spotify account. It will work.
Hi Peyton, what’s not working? Could you please be more specific so that I can help you further?
It’s working for majority of our readers, even for me.
What’s the error you are experiencing? Please let me know so that I can guide you.
Wow, I cannot believe this actually works (at least, so far). I was blocked from the old modified apps months ago when they started to crackdown, and I didn’t realize it had been worked around. Nice!
What you want to delete?
Whats the problem?
Hey Carmen! I don’t know why you are hearing audio ads. Advertisements are completely blocked in the app. I am a regular user of Spotify app and I never came across a single ad. And not only me, there are hundreds of users who have tried the same Spotify app and they never reported any issue with ads.
I will recommend you to please make sure you are using the Spotify mod apk version provided in this article and then try again. 🙂
Hi Hannah, if you referring to your phone’s internal storage data then yes it will consume some data depending on the number of music you have played through Spotify. Though most of that data is stored in a form of cache, which can be cleared by going to app settings. 🙂
Hey Robert, how do you know the Spotify is normal and not the premium?
In case you are clueless, the easiest way to find out is to try to open any music album and manually select a music from the list. If you are able to do that then it means you have Spotify Premium.
Hi Gogo San, if in any case it stops working or won’t let you login then all you need to do is follow the troubleshoot guide we have posted in the article above. That will solve the issue. 🙂
Guys, what will be added if you do it ? Only unlimited skips or you can download too the songs?
Hallo,
I the apk doesn’t work it will go automatically to playstore.
Can you help me please.
tried this today and it worked! I hope it will continue on… weehee! Thanks for sharing this trick! 🙂
The app is working perfectly for me, but the only issue I have is that there’s no icon on my homescreen to open it. In order to open it, I have to go to Settings — Apps — Spotify. And there doesn’t seem to be a way to get a shortcut to my home screen.
Any suggestions?
i sale premium very cheap, who want pm me
I’ve been using this for a couple of weeks now and it’s PERFECT. I don’t mind the inability to use offline as I have free music streaming from T-Mobile. Yes it’s an older UI version but it works great. Unlimited skips and on-demand selection work great. App is not buggy and I’m very happy you did this for us!
aamazing! shuffling and skipping are all I need!!!
amazing! all i need is shufle and skip songs!! <3
so I just found out that this is just downloading a Laptop/tablet mode of spotify on your phone….its fine to have unlimited skips but I hate the ads tho
I’m Using Windows 10, but when playing Spotify. The song stuck when on 6 seconds, How do I repair it ?
but in other hand, I tried on my phone and this works . Thanks ;DAndroid 4.1 Jelly Bean or above,
Supercell account.
You can download APK file from the link below.
Clash Royale apk for Android available for download, and it is one of the most popular strategy based Android games for phone or tablet devices with support for multiplayer in realtime. Use your best troops and create strategies in realtime to destroy your enemy’s tower.
About Clash Royale APK
Clash Royale is another successful realtime strategy gaming title developed by the Supercell for mobile devices from the creators of the popular game Clash of Clans. A multiplatform game is compatible with various devices. It is a multiplayer game featuring Royales, all the Clash characters, defense units, and a lot of new items to keep you entertained for countless hours.
The graphics and quality are fantastic, and if you love strategic games where it requires you to play the card at the right time, then Clash Royale is the game that you should download and play.
The Royales that are being featured in the Clash Royale to help you secure your tower and destroy your enemy tower units include Knights, Princess, Baby Dragons, and Balloons. And you can battle against players from all around the world using different cards and different strategies to defeat your opponent.
Each Clash Royale battle game has three towers, which include one king tower and two queen towers. You have to use a deck of eight cards to destroy your opponent’s towers while defending yours as well. Each battle lasts for three minutes.
The game offers several different battle modes, including tournaments, clan wars, clan battles, friendly battles, balloon festivals, and several more.
You have to complete quests, which are like tasks that will help you earn additional rewards. You can play in ladder battle wars to compete in the league, which starts once you cross 4000 trophies. The total number of trophies points are reset to half at the end of every season.
There are over 98 cards in total, and each has different elixir costs and specialties. You can strategically create a personalized deck of eight cards.
Supercell also added Pass Royale into the game, which can be bought from within the game and offers bonuses and rewards, additional free coins, unlimited gems, extra chests, exclusive in-game items, and above all, the ability to queue next chest. Each pass lasts for one season, and then you will have to repurchase it.
The exclusive rewards and bonuses include selective emotes and limited time tower skins.
Features of Clash Royale for Android
Clash Royale is a feature-rich Android mobile game with a number of possibilities to keep you engaged in a clash and multiplayer duel for endless entertainment:
Rewards – Unlock rewards by earning chests,
Cards – Collect new cards and upgrade existing cards to make them more powerful,
Crown Chests – Win epic crown chests by successfully destroying your opponent’s tower,
Battle Deck – Defeat your opponents by constructing your ultimate battle deck,
Clan – Build your very own battle community by forming a clan and sharing cards with the clanmates,
Private Duel – Use private duel mode to challenge your friends and clanmates privately,
Clash Troops, Spells, and Defenses – Build, upgrade, and unlock your favorite clash troops, powerful spells, and great defenses to protect your tower from the enemy.
Gameplay Demo Video of Clash Royale
Don’t know what to expect from the game? Watch this short gameplay demo video to find out how Clash Royale actually looks like on Android:Do you have Android TV or maybe an Android set-top box but don’t know which apps you should install to maximize its functionality and to make the most out of it? Here we have a list of 25 amazing apps that you should have on your Android TV to enhance the experience.
Android TV is becoming a norm these days with a large adaptation of Smart TV’s as well as the wide usage of gadgets like Chromecast. Not only that, the easy availability of TV boxes help make ordinary televisions almost as capable as the smart TV and, in some cases, they make it even more powerful.
One of the main reason for the success of Android TV is Google’s optimization of Android TVs in recent times, which has significantly improved its performance. The lag that plagued the user experience in the initial stage is now non-existent. The buttery-smooth UI and optimized integration with the Android ecosystem have made the overall experience completely seamless.
To help you entirely immerse yourself in this wonderful experience, we have compiled a list of 25 best apps for Android TV that will save you the hassle of burning your brain oil to decide which app will serve you better. To make a list easier to understand, we have broken the app list into little sections to give you a greater choice for the apps in each category to match your comfort and preferences.
Best Streaming Apps For Android TV
Web browsing is not a forte on a TV. The strength of TV is in media consumption, not social feed. For this purpose, the experience with the local cable provider is a mixed bag, so having a media streaming subscription is a must so that you can watch movies and TV shows. If you are missing out on this experience, then you are not making the most of your Android TV. The versatility of streaming services is so much that there’s something for everyone.
1. Netflix
Netflix is not the cheapest streaming subscription you can buy for yourself, but it’s worth what you pay, as the availability of content is massive. This streaming service is not famous for getting most of the content readily available for its consumers; however, it has a strong selling point, which is producing Netflix exclusive content.
The content on the Netflix ranges from trending TV series to anime. We admit that the collection of anime is not as vast when compared to the other content categories, but the fact that Netflix is such a well-rounded media streaming subscription easily puts it on top of everyone else.
It’s a no brainer to not to have a Netflix account as it starts from $7.99 for the basic. The app is quick and seamless, and the poster style banner-like UI works nicely to glue you to the couch and binge-watch few movies or TV series.
2. Hulu
Hulu is a relatively new platform as compared to Netflix. From a strict ‘best value for money’ standpoint, it is no match for Netflix. In fact, it has less availability and is pricier than Netflix, but if you’re a die-hard anime fan, then this streaming platform is for you.
The one benefit that Hulu enjoys over its other competitors is that it has a richer library of anime. Another advantage of Hulu is that the basic version is free, though it comes with ads. Hulu has an interface similar to Netflix with minor differences, which isn’t necessarily a bad thing.
3. Amazon Prime Video
Another relatively new video streaming app that provides a decent number of TV shows at a reasonable monthly price. The Android app of Amazon Prime Video does not support chrome cast; therefore, the Android TV app is the only way to get it without any hassle.
If you pay the admission price, then you can unlock other Prime benefits as well. Furthermore, the online streaming service also includes a variety of specialized channels with more exciting content to watch.
4. Crunchyroll
If you’re an otaku and don’t care about the world of TV series, then you are better off with skipping the apps mentioned earlier and get this one. Nothing beats Crunchyroll when it comes to anime; it has the biggest library of anime content except for the Netflix originals. It has anime in subs and dubs, and it publishes the episodes right after airing.
Subscription for Crunchyroll streaming service starts from $5.99, which is a lot cheaper than the other two. The app also gives you access to manga which although is not the best thing to read on TV but sure is nice to have it handy. The app has a different layout than Netflix and Hulu but provides a cleaner UI that is easier to navigate.
5. Cartoon Network App
A name synonymous with quality content, Cartoon Network has had an iconic legacy for decades. The Emmy award-winning app is the perfect source of recreation for children as it provides a lot of cartoon entertainment coupled with the right amount of education.
Fortunately, the app has now added support for Android TV. Similar to other applications for cable networks, the Cartoon Network app allows you to watch a selected on-demand content on your Android TV. If you want to enjoy the app fully then, you’ll need to provide your cable info. The app for the better part is free but does contain ads.
6. ESPN
Sports are exciting to watch, but ads aren’t. If you love watching sports, then ESPN is highly recommended, as it will help you get rid of ads and provide the ultimate sports experience and the broadcasting is fairly extensive so you can catch most of the sports events. The subscription for ESPN starts from $4.99.
Best Music Apps For Android TV
TV’s are not just to watch as there are times when we want to make use of those surround sound speakers of our TV, so having a good music streaming service is also a must-have.
1. Spotify
Spotify is another strong contender in the music streaming game; it rivals Google Music in most aspects. Though it does fall behind for additional features mainly due to Google having the support for YouTube Music.
Spotify or Play Music is just a matter of personal preference, but Spotify does differentiate it from Google Music by giving free access to playlists and albums. You can also listen to the podcast in Spotify, which is missing in the Google Play Music.
2. Google Play Music
Google Play Music has a rich library of songs, and it is not limited to just songs. It also has radio stations which you can listen to for free, but there are ads in the free version. For the on-demand content, you have to pay $9.99. Play Music service also allows its users to upload their music, which they can listen to at any time at their convenience and that too, without any charges.
3. Pandora for Android TV
Pandora is not exactly a music streaming service though it does give that option to paid users. It is mainly a music discovery service. It also has a huge library and boasts access to your favorite radio station and podcasts.
Best Media Streaming Apps For Android TV
The power of having an Android TV is that you have the freedom to stream any media that you have stored on your local home network, flash drive, or any storage device. To help you with movie and music streaming and in an attempt to simplify the process, here are the best media streaming apps for Android TV that you can try right away:
1. Kodi
Kodi is the award-winning free and open source cross-platform software media player app and an entertainment hub for digital media for HTPCs (Home theater PCs). When it comes to streaming from various home devices on your home network, then look no further. If you are watching something in the living room and you suddenly feel like moving to another room where you have another TV, you don’t have to transfer your media to the other device.
Being open-source and community-driven, Kodi offers tons of options for modifying as well as extensions that can give you access to around thousands of channels. The app has a 10-foot interface design and is a tailor-made media player for the living room. The app uses a remote controller as the primary means of input device. It’s GUI allows users to navigate through various forms of content including, videos, photos, podcasts, and music from hard drive, local network, and the Internet.
2. Plex
One of the very first Android TV apps available on Google Play Store, Plex to date remains to be one of the most popular apps for Android TV when it comes to playing videos from your computer/phone to your TV. Simply put, Plex operates the same way as Kodi, but it requires a full-fledged PC acting as a server. It can let you decentralize your media wherever you are and whenever you want it and even let you pause on one device and play it on another.
Furthermore, Plex doesn’t require you to be on the same LAN. Unlike Kodi, Plex lacks in the extensions and modifiability but offers more professional design and support.
3. Haystack (news)
In an era of ever-increasing information, a decent news app can filter the right amount of information for its users. HayStack is a news app that provides updated news on everything from science and technology, politics and current events, to games and movie trailers. The app has reached unprecedented popularity in the last three-four years.
The app takes a slightly unorthodox and unique approach when it comes to delivering the news to its audience. The way it works is that it allows you to select the topics of their interests, along with your most trusted news sources. The app then learns about your interests, and then this information is used to provide you with the daily newscast. HayStack collects news information from over 100 local and international stations.
Best Online Content Watching Apps For Android TV
Some services will allow you to consume content as well as share any content on the Internet, these services are widely used on Android phones but has been designed specifically for Android TV too. Those apps are:
4. YouTube for Android TV
YouTube is perhaps the most popular online video platform and one of the most popular apps on Google Play Store, and the giant video platform has one of the largest collection of videos on the Internet. It features videos from all genres, including tech, music, comedy, politics, sports, and whatnot.
The YouTube Android TV app gives you the option to write anything on the search bar via the remote control instead of opting to use a microphone for voice command. The best part is that it’s free, however, if you want to enjoy an add-free experience you can subscribe to YouTube Red on a monthly package.
5. Twitch
If you love watching live streams of Pro gamers showcasing their skills, then Twitch is the app for you. Regarded as the best platform for the gaming community, Twitch provides live streaming videos where gamers post live streams of their gameplay. It may sound mundane to any normal user, but the platform provides a lot of learning curve to budding gamers.
If you’re a gamer, then you should thank Amazon for making Twitch compatible with the Android TV platform and helping us include it in the list of best Android TV apps.
Best Web Browsers For Android TV
Browser is important because it will help you experience the power of the web on your television. Web experience cannot be good if the browser is unable to comply with the modern standards of the web, but in this case, it might not be that convenient to browse the web using Android TV.
Android OS has tons of web browsers, if you didn’t like the ones we have mentioned below then you can always head over to our list of best web browsers for Android which is available here.
1. Puffin Android TV-Browser
Puffin Browser by CloudMosa, Inc is likely one of the best options if you are looking for a way to browse the web on Android TV. Unlike Google Chrome, whose UI is more optimized for touch-enabled devices, this browser advertises it as tailor-made for the TV to provide the best web browsing experience on TV including the task as simple as watching a video, listening to music, and surfing the web.
2. Google Chrome
Google Chrome is the browser designed and developed by Google that is well compliant with the modern web standards and is convenient enough to be used on TV as it offers a coherent design over all the platforms. However, you won’t be able to find the app on the Google Play Store for Android TV despite being supported, so you need to sideload it. (We have explained sideloading process at the end of this blog post).
3. HopWatch for Reddit
If you are a meme guy, then we are pretty confident you are a Reddit user as well or for the very least familiar with it. HopWatch is a Reddit client that is purposely made with TV in mind, so you easily browse through the Reddit website right from your Android-enabled TV.
It’s a great app to have even if you use Reddit rarely because you will get to watch and explore hot trending topics including pictures, videos, movies, and subreddit threads.
Best VPN Apps For Android TV
Since we have been talking a lot about subscription services, there are situations where these services do not work depending on your geographical whereabouts. In such scenarios, VPN acts as the perfect solution to this problem, as it can change your IP to a given list of countries while allowing you to use that service even if it is not allowed in that region.
Here are the best free VPN apps for Android that you might want to install:
1. Tunnel Bear
Tunnel Bear is the go-to VPN app for Android users, geo-locations may limit it but the ones it provides are sufficient. The VPN comes with a free option; however, these options have bandwidth limitations that are very less and won’t help you much with streaming.
2. Express VPN
Express VPN is also a famous name in the VPN market. If you are somehow not convinced with Tunnel Bear, then this definitely deserves your attention. It has more geo-locations, so it has better chances of offering lower latency connection. The downside for Express VPN is that it doesn’t offer any free version and starts with $12.95 a month.
Best File Managers
Android TV nowadays has become more than just a media-streaming device. With an ever-developing Android ecosystem, you will need a reliable file manager to navigate the local and external storage on your Android TV. File managers become increasingly useful when transferring files from externals storage such as SD cards, flash drives, or hard drives. To better manage your files, here are some of the best file managers for Android TV.
1. FX File Explorer
FX File Explorer is a great ad-free app for managing files, documents, images, and apps stored on your Android TV. The app comes with a variety of features such as:
- Neatly designed home page UI with the support for split-screen mode,
- Tool backed by AI for cleaning phone storage as well as to show what is taking space on your device,
- Manage all of your cloud storage including Dropbox, Google Drive, or Sky Drive,
The app enables you to manage your media files such as downloads and storage space and move things around from one folder to another to easily organize your files. The file manager provides classic desktop options such as cut, copy, paste, create, delete, and rename. Furthermore, you can also decompress files to ZIP or RAR.
2. Airscreen
Due to various incompatibilities between the two ecosystems, i.e. iOS and Android, it is nearly impossible to cast videos from an iPhone to Android TV. The main reason for this is that Android TV supports Google Cast, which is only compatible with Android devices. However, with the help of the AirScreen app, iPhone users can cast their device’s screen to Android TV.
AirScreen is compatible with multiple operating systems including iOS 8, 9, 10, 11, 12; macOS; Windows 10; and Android. It also provides support for multiple applications such as iTunes, YouTube, Safari, and Chrome. Some of its useful features include:
- Screen recording,
- Encrypted transmission (protects your privacy),
- High-resolution images (4K),
- Video hardware acceleration,
- Background service mode.
3. Google Drive
If you regularly access files on your Android TV, then what better to do it than Google Drive. Google’s very own cloud storage service is one of the most popular online storage services on the Internet. Installing this app grants you unlimited access to your cloud storage while allowing you to view all the stored content on the big screen. It is fully compatible with Android TV.
Unfortunately, you won’t be able to find it in the Android TV’s version of the Play Store. You need to sideload it first and then launch it via a third-party launcher. Once you install Google Drive, you will be able to sync all your devices together as well as transfer and manage all the files between them.
Best Android TV Launchers
Although the manufacturers do not recommend sideloading launcher because using apps that are not on the store can be dangerous from a software standpoint. However, if you are cautious enough about where you download your apps from, then you are going to be fine.
The issue is that on Android TV, the launcher does not show the sideloaded apps, which is why we need special launchers that can make the sideloaded apps visible. The downside is that they are usually buggy and sometimes may not be able to work at all. However, they can greatly increase the potential of Android TV (more on how to sideload apps on Android TV at the end of this blog post).
We already have a list of speedy launchers for Android but you can try the ones we have mentioned below too:
1. Sideload Launcher for Android TV
Sideload Launcher comes from the famous developer, Chainfire. The sideload launcher is fairly simple, and it does what it is supposed to do without any extra features. While certainly not as streamlined or seamless as the average user would wish for their TV, many apps can still function on some level on these devices if you sideload them. This launcher lacks the customizability too.
2. HALauncher
HALauncher is an alternative to Sideload Launcher that offers similar features; however, the interface is a lot better and provides more customization. One downside of the HA Launcher is that when Google apps update it starts to mess up, so it is better to turn off the auto-update with this one or use it only when you have to use a sideloaded app. Another downside is that it contains ads, which might affect the overall usability.
Bonus: Best Gaming App For Your Android TV
1. Stream Link for Android TV
The Stream Link came to the Play Store in May, last year. The app brought the much-needed feature of enabling streaming from PC to other Android devices. Simply put, the app brings desktop gaming to your Android devices. It means if you have a good Internet connection, you can stream your games at up to 4K 60fps.
Pair a Bluetooth/Stream controller to your Android TV and connect it to a computer running Steam on the same local network. You can then start playing your games. An important thing to take into consideration is that for better streaming performance on Android TV you have to make sure you have connected your Stream PC and Android TV to your home network via Ethernet or wired connection.
How to Sideload APKs on Android TV
The process of sideloading Android apps is fairly easy and simple. Just follow these steps, and you will be good to sideload any app on your Android TV:
- On your Android TV, go to the Settings menu and navigate to Security.
- Now you need to enable “install from unknown sources.”
Once unknown sources are enabled, you can download any APK you want to sideload and install them using a file explorer we have recommended i.e. “FX File Explorer.”
We hope this article is useful to you. Let us know if we forgot any app that you want us to cover in this article.
Guide on Installing Google Play Store & Other Apps on Smart TV [Samsung | Sony]
All Major Google Assistant Commands: Ok/Hey Google
How to use Do Not Disturb Mode On Android? [Q/A Guide]
10 Best Thesis Writing Apps for AndroidDo you want to download the latest songs, music, or podcast in MP3 format on your Android so that you can listen to them while you are offline or somewhere away from the Internet?
There are hundreds of MP3 downloader apps available on the Google Play Store that promises to let you download MP3 files, but due to some legal terms and copyright limitations imposed by the Google and content publishers, most of these apps will never allow you to download copyright content from YouTube and other sites.
So what you should do now? And how you can download MP3 on your Android?
I have got seven best MP3 downloaders for Android that will let you download music, songs, melodies, and podcasts in MP3 formats without any limitation.
Using these apps, you can download any type/genre of song and music in MP3 format including pop, rock, classic, R&B, rap, and Latin, most of these app are also free.
Best Apps To Download MP3 Songs Android
#01 – SONGily MP3 Music Downloader
SONGily is the most reliable MP3 downloader app available on the Play Store that allows you to search, discover, and easily download MP3 music on your Android phone.
Surprisingly, you can even download HQ video music right from YouTube if you want to, though the service is still in a beta phase.
SONGily is a perfect MP3 downloader app for you if you are looking to download covers and remix versions of the original music. There are original songs by original artists too, but you will need to listen to each song on the list to be able to find the original one.
Pros
- Easy to preview and download MP3 music.
- Have a huge database of music.
- Ability to download music from YouTube (under beta phase).
Cons
- Contains ads.
- It might be a little bit time consuming to find original MP3 music.
Download SONGily MP3 Music Downloader
#02 – SuperCloud Song Downloader
SuperCloud is the most simplified song downloader app for Android enabling you to search and download thousands of songs quickly. The app contains two tabs i.e. Search and Downloads.
The Search tab has a search bar that allows you to search for songs using the artist, album, or song name. Hitting the search button will populate the list of songs available in the database. Just tap on the song, use the Play icon to preview, and Download button to start downloading.
The Downloads tab will show you a list of all the songs you have downloaded on your phone.
Pros
- Simplified and clutter-free user interface.
- Preview MP3 songs before downloading them to your phone.
- Compatible with Android 2.3 and above.
- No ads.
Cons
- Not available on the Google Play Store.
Download SuperCloud Song Downloader
#03 – XTunes MP3 Downloader
Are you interested in discovering and downloading some new songs?
XTunes MP3 Downloader makes it easier than ever to browse, search, and download your favorite MP3 songs on your Android phone. The inbuilt search feature allows you to find, listen, and download all the MP3 songs from various music websites on the Internet.
The app has numerous sections to make it streamlined for you to browse the latest and top MP3 songs including the latest albums and singles, top album charts, and list of hit songs for every month.
Pros
- Separate tabs for regional, pop, English, and Hindi songs.
- Material design with easy to navigate user interface.
- Ability to preview MP3 songs before downloading.
Cons
- Contains ads.
- Not available on the Google Play Store.
Download XTunes MP3 Downloader
#04 – YTD2 MP3 Music Downloader
YTD2 is an advanced MP3 music downloader for Android that is capable enough to download any music from the Internet.
The built-in search bar in the app performs an in-depth search on the music websites available on the Internet and shows you a list of all the MP3 songs available for download.
There is another exciting feature of this downloader i.e. the app is not only limited to streaming and downloading MP3 audio formats, but you can even stream and download music in HQ video formats including 360p and 720p resolutions directly from the YouTube using the share feature.
To be able to download and convert video files to MP3 audio format, the app will prompt you to download the required FFMPEG plugin.
Pros
- Huge variety of top music available on the app’s homepage.
- Easy to search, browse, and download MP3 music of your choice.
- Ability to download music videos and MP3 audios from the YouTube.
- No ads.
Cons
- Not available on the Google Play Store.
Download YTD2 MP3 Music Downloader
#05 – Osons MP3 Downloader
Osons is a free MP3 downloader app available on the Google Play Store that let you search and download any MP3 music on your Android phone without you needing to go to any website.
The app finds a video version of your music, then automatically converts it into an MP3 format and downloads it on your phone.
Similar to other MP3 downloaders in the list, Osons also has two tabs i.e. Search and MP3 Downloads.
Under the Search tab, you will have a search bar using which you can find and download any music. And the successfully downloaded music files will then be available under the MP3 Downloads tab for you to play.
Pros
- Simple and easy to find and download any MP3 music.
- You can set the downloaded MP3 music file as your ringtone directly from the app.
Cons
- No option to preview music before downloading.
- Contains ads.
Download Osons MP3 Downloader
#06 – Hungama Music Downloader & Player
Hungama is a popular app for music lovers to listen, download, and stream their favorite music tracks right from the Android phone. You will find a broad range of MP3 and video songs in various languages including English, Tamil, Hindi, Telugu, Punjabi, and other languages.
The app has the most up to date database that contains over 3.5 million music and songs from all over the world. You will find almost any music to match your mood.
To be able to download MP3 music and songs, you will need to upgrade to the Hungama Pro that will unlock HD quality music and unlimited full-length videos, and also removes advertisements.
Though, you can enjoy offline music playback for free. 😉
Pros
- The most up to date app along with quick developers support.
- Relish songs in MP3 and video formats.
- Remove ads with Hungama Pro.
Cons
- Contains ads.
Download Hungama Music Downloader & Player
#07 – SnapTube Music & Video Downloader
SnapTube is the easiest, fastest, and free app to find, stream, and download any media file format including MP3 music and songs from virtually any website on the Internet to your Android phone.
You can use the search bar located on the top left corner of the app and enter the name of the song or artist, and it will show you all the available sources. You can even download MP3 music and songs directly from YouTube using this app.
Pros
- The Straightforward user interface makes it easier for even beginners to download music and songs.
- Download MP3 audio from YouTube, Vimeo, Vevo, and other streaming websites.
- Built-in fast download mode to speed up the download.
Cons
- Contains ads.
- Not available on the Google Play Store.
Download SnapTube Music & Video Downloader
Which App Helped You To Download MP3?
Were you able to download the required MP3 files? Which of the seven MP3 downloader apps helped you the most? I will love to know! 🙂
One more app to check out – MP3 Hunter:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tuneself.android.music.mp3.downloader.free
Lots of free songs licensed with Creative Commons and free for downloading. Music discovery for true music fans.
Great article thanx for sharing really helpfullFly GPS apk is available for download for Android that can help you spoof your location in the Pokemon GO game with a joystick. Or maybe you want to virtually visit another part of the world to catch rare or legendary Pokemon by using location coordinates.
Here’s the deal:
The majority of the Pokemon players are looking for a way to complete their Pokedex by capturing regionals but they can’t afford expensive airfare tickets, some kids are not allowed to roam around in the neighborhood, and many are disable and can’t walk.
Regardless of your reason behind using the Android location hacking app with Pokemon GO:
I am here to provide you with the working download link to Fly GPS (com.fly.gps) so that you can spoof your location and control your Pokemon trainer with a joystick and catch all Gen1 and Gen2 Pokemon from the comfort of your home without walking.
Fly GPS/Fake GPS Location Hack APK
Apart from downloading the latest & old versions of Fly GPS apk for Android, you will also learn about how to easily install this GPS spoofing app along with all the discussion about all the known issues, troubleshooting, and frequently asked questions related to this app.
Nevertheless:
Fly GPS, which is also known as Fake GPS, is one of the best location hacking app for Pokemon GO to spoof location and control the trainer using a built-in on-screen joystick. It is a powerful app with tons of amazing location hacking functionalities.
The best thing is that the Fly GPS for Pokemon GO is completely free to download, safe to use, and works perfectly with all the versions of Pokemon GO.
Features of Fly GPS for Android
Fly GPS is a popular fake location Android app that has become one of the most favorite apps for Pokemon GO game players to spoof location in the game and control character using a joystick.
This app comes with numerous functionalities including:
- Virtually travel to any part of the world with an on-screen joystick.
- Ability to navigate to any location using ‘Google Search’ or ‘Coordinates Search’.
- Fixed location mode.
- Move location mode.
- Option to add any location to your favorite.
- The on-screen joystick controller can be easily repositioned/relocated by dragging to any part of the screen.
Download Fly GPS/Fake GPS APK
This section is where you can download the latest version of Fly GPS to spoof your location on Android:
|Category:||Maps & Navigation|
|Requirements:||Android 4.4 KitKat or above, GPS, and internet connectivity|
|Author:||Samboking|
|Version:||6.0.5|
|Pakage Name:||com.fly.gps|
|Size:||2.60 MB|
How to Install Fly GPS on Android
Don’t know how to install APK file? It’s very simple. Just follow our teeny-weeny easy to follow 6-step tutorial to quickly install Fly GPS on your Android phone/tablet device and start spoofing your location:
- Download the latest version of Fly GPS using the link given in the download section above. You can use any web browser to download the file.
- Once the apk has been downloaded successfully, swipe down the notifications bar and then tap on the app file i.e. com.fly.gps.apk.
- You will see an Install blocked popup message. Tap on the “Settings”.
- Tap on “Unknown sources” checkbox.
- A pop-up Unknown Sources message box will appear. Make sure “Allow this installation only” box is marked as enabled. Then tap on “OK”.
- Now tap on the “Install” button.
Within a few seconds, the app will be installed on your Android device.
Fly GPS – Issues, Troubleshooting & FAQs
Are you aware of all the known issues related to Fly GPS for Android? Or it might be possible that you have some questions regarding the location spoofing app?
If your answer is yes, simply use this section to find answers to all your queries about known issues, troubleshooting, and frequently asked questions (FAQ):
Q1: How to hack Pokemon GO and spoof location with Fly GPS app?
It is one of the most frequently asked questions here on our blog. So we have created a detailed tutorial available here to guide you through the installation and proper configuration of Fly GPS app on your Android device. Also, there’s a complete step-by-step guide to teach you about how to fake/spoof location in Pokemon GO and control your Pokemon trainer with a joystick.
Q2: Fly GPS does not work after a new Android security update.
Once your Android device has received a security update, you will no longer be able to use Fly GPS to spoof your location. But there are a couple of workarounds:
- Downgrade your phone/tablet Android version to the previous release.
- Or, you can install Fly GPS on your phone as a system app.
However, it is important to mention here that both of these loopholes require you to root your device.
Q3: Fly GPS not working, Pokemon GO says failed to detect location/GPS signal not found.
This is a well-known issue with Fly GPS, which came up right after the release of the Android security update. The good thing is we have a working solution here at our official Best Android forum. You can even discuss your opinion with the fellow Fly GPS users there. 😉
Q4: Fly GPS not working on Android 7.0 and 7.1 Nougat.
Recently, Fly GPS seems to have some compatibility issues with the latest versions of Android Nougat including:
- Android 7.0,
- Android 7.1,
- Android 7.1.1,
- Android 7.1.2, and above.
Many of our blog readers have had a great success with alternative spoofing app i.e. Fake GPS GO Joystick. You can download it here and see if it works for you.
Q5: While using Fly GPS, Pokemon GO shows red bar on the top that says no GPS detected.
That usually happens when mock locations are enabled which conflicts with the Pokemon GO. It can be solved easily, we have an easy to follow fix for failed to detect location error in Pokemon GO.
Q6: How can I avoid soft ban and hard ban while using Fly GPS?
The best possible way to avoid any possible soft ban in Pokemon GO while using location hack is to use the joystick controls wisely and slowly move your character around because Niantic servers keep a constant track of your last location.
Here is an example:
In case you suddenly travel your character using joystick from point A to point B in a couple of seconds, the same amount of distance that usually requires five to ten minutes to cover then your account will be soft banned.
So I will suggest you to use location hacking apps wisely to protect your account from any type of bans.
Q7: Fly GPS teleports me back to my original location.
In Pokemon GO hacking terms, this issue is known as ‘rubber banding’ where your Pokemon trainer will randomly jump between your real location and fake location on its own. Few working fixes have already been discussed on our forum here.
Conclusion
I hope this extensive piece of content has helped you with everything related to location spoofing using Fly GPS on Android phone and tablet devices.
If, in any case, you are still unable to find a suitable answer to your question then please ask in the comments section below and our support team will help you out in no time. 🙂
Salve!
Vorrei condividere questo server Discord in cui sono presenti tantissime segnalazione di pokemon Italiani e non:
https://discord.gg/NE78TAr
Nel server sono Maxim per chi vuole parlare sul fly e pokemon go!
I am getting some error for the fly GPS after installing it on this page.
Please suggest if any solution is there.!|Topic ||||Replies ||Views ||Activity |
|About the Tips & Tricks category || ||0 ||715 ||March 4, 2017 |
|How to Convert Spotify Playlist to MP3 || ||4 ||87 ||October 22, 2020 |
|What is Easiest Way to Download Online Videos for Offline Viewing? || ||19 ||3172 ||September 22, 2020 |
|Convert YouTube Videos to MP4 || ||2 ||224 ||September 14, 2020 |
|How I can get Spotify Premium For Free on Android? || ||29 ||15120 ||August 27, 2020 |
|Which is best Emulator for Android? || ||5 ||2127 ||May 5, 2020 |
|Zenfone Zoom Camera Capability (Hardware) Is Not Fully Available (ZX551ML) || ||4 ||697 ||August 21, 2018 |
|I am cleaning my Android screen but can't || ||2 ||519 ||August 14, 2018 |
|8 Ball Pool Tricks, Tips & Hacks || ||7 ||773 ||July 10, 2018 |
|How to get WhatsApp on any Android Tablet device || ||1 ||975 ||March 19, 2017 |
|How to Watch YouTube Red Videos Without buying the Subscription on Android || ||7 ||1787 ||February 14, 2018 |
|Samsung Galaxy S8/S8+ Camera tips and tricks || ||6 ||1329 ||February 9, 2018 |
|How To Prevent Fast Battery Drain on Android Devices? || ||8 ||874 ||January 25, 2018 |
|How to Change the Clock from Analog to Digital? || ||6 ||1373 ||January 4, 2018 |Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 mod apk for Android is all about fighting a war with the enemies and that too in a fun and strategic way. The player has to come up with a plan to win the war and to save the fellow soldiers.
What will you do to save the world in a war situation? You are a soldier and you and a hero are given the responsibility to come up with a strategy to save the world. If you are a fan of warfare games, then you should play Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 available for all Android devices.
About Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 Mod APK
This popular Android game Mini Militia is all about the fight of a soldier who leads an army and develops strategic plans to win the war. It revolves around a solo fighter who tries to save the lives of his team and comrades.
Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 gives freedom to the player to plan different strategies and to select the relevant weapons to win the war against enemies. The primary responsibilities of the player include:
- Choosing The Right Weapon – Different weapons are made available as more points are gained.
- Preparing A Team For War – Players have to demonstrate teamwork in the game.
- Planning Strategies – Devising different strategies to win the war.
This game is considered to be a pioneer in Android warfare gaming. It ensures the first-hand fighting experience for the players with their exciting graphics and other features. If you are interested in playing a warfare game, then Mini Militia is the right choice for you. The best thing about this Android game is that it is free of cost and provides different features like avatar customization, awards, offline practice, maps, and online deathmatches.
User Interface of Mini Militia
The overall interface of the game is extremely simple and has been designed to be understood by its intended audience.
There is a login button on the top right corner, and the user is required to create an account to play online matches. There are different options available on the home screen, including Avatar, Settings, Quick Play, Play online, Practice (local), Store, and Friends.
The user can choose any name for the soldier and can further customize its avatar. There are different stats like skills, kills, and deaths available with each player. All these statistics are updated as the player fights more wars. The experience and rank of each soldier are also maintained and updated as the game proceeds. There is a customize button available that leads the user to change the appearance of the soldier.
There are many options available in the Setting bar. The user can turn on the music and sound to fully enjoy the game.
Since this is an online multiplayer game, so the user can turn on the chat to communicate with other team members online during the war. The user can enable hi-resolution graphics and zoom from the options menu.
Mini Militia mod apk gives the freedom to the user to choose the placement options. The user can select its keys for the movement and aim. There is also a store available to buy and upgrade different weapons.
As mentioned earlier, the user has to select the latest weapons to win the war. All the weapons are available in the store and cost different points. As the user progresses in the game, the point increases. These points can be further utilized to buy relevant items from the store.
Mini Militia Gaming Modes and Maps
The great thing about Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 mod is that it can be played in online and offline modes. There are four different types of practice sessions available: Deathmatch, Survival Co-op, Survival Solo, and Training.
It is best to start from training and then move upwards from solo survival matches to the ultimate deathmatch. As the game demands users to come up with different plans and strategies in the game, so practice is the key to success in this game.
The user can select to play a solo match where they play against the computer. Moreover, the user can choose to play with other players who are already playing the game. In this way, the players will get a chance to demonstrate camaraderie in the game.
The user can choose different locations available on the map. These locations are available in various sizes and areas, which include Outpost (small size), Catacombs (medium size), S long (large size), Pyramid (large size), and Random.
Similar to the practice matches, there are three options available for the ultimate playing matches online, i.e., Free for all, Team deathmatch, and Custom game.
Mini Militia Gameplay
Mini Militia mod for Android allows the user to create their teams by playing it with friends. These are the reasons that it does not get boring at any stage. It comes with exciting features and levels to maintain the attention of the players for a more extended time.
The user can create their custom playroom to play with friends. It is possible to create a customized platform and set a password to the playroom. The user can select maps and team members for the playroom. In this way, only authorized people can play the game.
Some different tips and tricks can be applied by the users to win the game. As it is a war game, so it is important to aim at the enemy from behind a bush, tree, or any other obstacle. The player should not be exposed in the open to get fired. The player has to keep on firing or throwing the bombs while getting closer to the enemy. The player should not wait to get closer and then fire.
The player should have two guns with him all the time to have an added advantage. It is good to equip the player with a shotgun, sniper, and a rocket launcher. There are different combinations of weapons that work well together.
For example, sniper goes well with shotguns. M4 and bazooka are also the right combinations of shotguns. The shield can be used with pistol or Uzi. The shield is used to protect from bullets as well as bombs.
The player should check the weapons and reload them before getting into a fight. The player should hide mines and time bombs behind the bushes to kill the enemy instantly. The player needs to keep an eye on the rocket fuel and try to keep it full. If the player gets hit by any chance, then he should try to escape and hide behind something to recover.
Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 mod apk is a real demonstration of teamwork, so the player must wait for his team to join the battlefield. The player should not make any move or get into a fight without waiting for his team. The player should check the range of all the weapons. Different weapons work at different ranges, so the player has to keep these things in mind before using them in the battle.
For instance, a sniper can shoot at a long-range as compared to a rocket launcher. Also, as it is a good practice to use a combination of guns so the player should practice switching between the two guns in no time. The player should keep the weapons up-to-date by buying new weapons from the store with battle points. The player should practice melee while shooting to progress in the game.
Features of Mini Militia Doodle Army 2 Mod
Listed below are some of the key features of Mini Militia mod for Android:
- A unique warfare game that allows the player to play in online and offline modes.
- The user can play with friends by customizing the game. The playroom can be accessible only by authorized people.
- The player has the freedom to plan strategies to win the battle.
- It is a multiplayer game where the players are required to do teamwork to win the battle.
- The players can customize their avatars and buy different weapons from the store using battle points.
- Different stats related to the performance and health of the player is displayed on the screen.
- The user can play at different levels in practice matches and online matches.As of 2020, 72 million people use Apple Music. And Apple Music has become increasingly important to Apple over the years — especially since it replaced iTunes in 2019. To get started, you simply pay Apple $9.99/£9.99 per month and you can stream as much music as you like, as many times as you like, on as many devices as you like.
You can enjoy songs from Apple Music on your iPhone, iPad, iPod, Apple Watch, HomePod, or any device where you can install the Apple Music app. However, its music service is not available on lots of devices like MP3 players, game consoles, smartwatches, and more. How to play Apple Music on any device you like? Here you may need an Apple Music Converter.
There are hundreds of free or paid audio converters in the market claiming that they can convert almost all audio formats. Unfortunately, 99% of them fail to convert Apple Music or iTunes music to MP3. That’s because all Apple music tracks are encrypted with Apple’s Fairplay DRM. In other words, M4P is not a common format.
Tunelf Apple Music Converter is the 1% software that can help you convert Apple Music to MP3 easily . Except for converting Apple Music to MP3, you can also use it to convert Audible, iTunes songs, and common audios to widely-used formats. Here are the main features of this software:
- Remove DRM protection from Apple Music and iTunes songs
- Convert Apple Music to MP3, AAC, WAC, M4A, M4B, and FLAC
- Preserve Apple Music with the lossless audio quality and IDS tags
- Customize and personalize your audio files according to your needs
Step 1. Select your Apple Music files
Fire up Tunelf Audio Converter on your computer and then click the Load iTunes Library button at the top of the interface. Then you can browse your songs from Apple Music and add them you wish to convert to Tunelf interface. Or, you can directly add Apple Music files from the local folder to Tunelf interface.
Step 2. Customize your output settings
Next, click the Format panel. In this option, you can set the output audio format and adjust the bit rate, sample rate, code, and channel according to your personal demands. You could select MP3 format from among several audio formats as the output audio format and then click the OK button to close the window.
Step 3. Convert Apple Music playlist to MP3
When all the parameters are set well, you can click the Convert button at the lower right corner to start to rip Apple Music to MP3. When the conversion process finishes, your files have been saved in your default folder. Then click the Converted button to browse all the converted Apple Music in the converted list and then play Apple Music on any device.